2023-06-06
Finance and Planning Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Evening. The Tuesday, June 6, 2023, Finance and Planning Committee meeting will now
come to order. My name is Doug Tisdale, and I am the Chair of this committee. We are convened as of
5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending this Zoom meeting, please mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak. It will help with the audio recording and for the ability of all the Directors to hear each
other. So if you are not on mute, please go on mute now.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. And please note that continuing for the next several months, the
committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will continue to be held remotely via Zoom and will also
be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings,
will be posted as soon as practicable on the RTD's website. Visit rtd-denver.com for additional information
to get to the Board page on the RTD website. Moreover, a live stream of this meeting is available on RTD's
YouTube page.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you please to raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call upon you
before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff who are participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they
would like to speak by pressing Star 9 on their phones. To toggle your Mute setting on the phone, press
Star 6. So I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. First, Director Peggy Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Bobby Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Board Chair Lynn Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Michael Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.

DOUG TISDALE: Director Ian Hardwick?
IAN HARDWICK: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Vice Chair Erik Davidson is at a city council meeting and is excused from attendance
this evening. And I am Doug Tisdale, the Chair, and I am here. For the record, I will note that we also have
with us this evening Directors Bob Broom and Kate Williams. And are there any other Directors that I have
neglected to mention?
Hearing none, we'll proceed now to our next portion of the agenda. And I will now open the public comment
portion of our meeting to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the
published meeting agenda for this meeting or for last month's meeting.
If you wish to speak and you haven't already done this, please either raise your virtual hand or press Star
9 on your phone. And I will ask staff now, are there any hands raised, just so I know?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There are no hands raised and there were no emails received.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. With that, then we will close the public comment session of this meeting and
avoid all of the caveats that we usually give regarding the public comment section. And then we will note
also that on our next item on the agenda regarding information from external entities, Tai-Shrae Parish from
the Board Office has confirmed to us that there is no information from external entities received by the
Board office for this month's meeting.
Then next, we turn to recommended actions. And I will note that there are no recommended actions on our
committee agenda for this month. So our next item on the agenda is discussion items, and there is one
discussion item on the agenda this evening. That item is for proposed debt modifications.
And I would like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Brenden Morgan, the Senior
Manager of Debt and Investment, to introduce this item, which discusses the possibility of creating over
$100 million in interest savings for RTD. With that introduction, Mr. MacLeod, we're looking forward to great
words from you. And sir, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale, and good evening. I'd also like to mention that we asked
Mike Newman, the Senior Managing Director from our municipal financial advisor at Hilltop Securities to
join us. I know he's traveling. He may join us as well, Mr. Chair.
So with that said, this item, yes, is a discussion item. First of two items. We plan to bring this item back in
July, at the July 11 Finance and Planning Committee meeting as an action item. These debt modifications

that we will be proposing for approval next month contribute to the strategic priorities of financial success,
as well as community value.
And essentially, what you'll hear is that what we're looking to do is become-- take advantage of some
efficiencies in terms of managing our working capital or our available funding, as well as refinancing some
previous issues of debt for interest savings, which will lower RTD's overall debt service burden over the
coming years. So Brenden and I will field any questions at the end, but I will bring the presentation up on
the screen and ask Brenden to walk us through those slides.
BRENDEN MORGAN: All right. Thank you, Doug. Good evening. I'm Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of
Debt and Investments. And if we can move to the next slide, we'll start there.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, we do see dual slides on the screen before us. It's not in slideshow.
We see your notes. I know you're using two screens. So sorry for the interruption. Just wanted you to be
aware of what we're seeing.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam General Manager and CEO. Yes, we do have-- the Preview portion
is up on your screen, so you might want to switch it to Slideshow presentation.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. If I can do that again, let me go back to Slideshow presentations. Is it still
showing this too?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, it is, Doug.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, it is.
DOUG MACLEOD: I've had some difficulties with my connections, so I have several screens. And I
apologize for this. Again, it happened before. I'm working on getting that fixed. So Stuart-- yes. I'll ask Stuart
to help me here.
SPEAKER: Hi, Stuart.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So you can just do it off your laptop.
DOUG TISDALE: Ta-da!
BRENDEN MORGAN: [LAUGHS] Oh.
[WHISPERING]
DOUG MACLEOD: You seeing it? Did that work?

DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir, it does. You may proceed.
DOUG MACLEOD: Excellent. Thanks, Stuart. and I apologize. Thank you.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you, Stuart. So yes, as Doug mentioned, I'm going to be walking through two
proposed debt modifications that could lock in interest expense savings for the district. The first one involves
RTD's currently outstanding Certificates of Participation Series 2013A. The second involves RTD's currently
outstanding FasTracks bonds, Series 2019A and 2021A. First, we'll discuss the Certificates of Participation.
This proposed transaction involves the issuance of a new series, 2023A Certificate of Participation, to
refund the 2013A Certificates of Participation to lower future interest expense. It would also finance
potentially a portion of the Mid-Term Financial Plan's capital spending and fund the related costs of issuance
related to the issuance of this transaction.
The certificates would be issued at a tax-exempt fixed rate of interest with no reserve fund. The senior
manager for the transaction would be RBC Capital Markets with Stifel and Wells Fargo as co-managers.
The currently outstanding 2013 Certificates of Participation have approximately $90 million still outstanding.
And RTD currently has the right to redeem or call the Certificates of Participation to refund or refinance
them today.
There's also an associated debt reserve, that service reserve fund that's worth approximately $22 million
related to it. This proposed refunding would use the $22 million reserve fund to pay down a portion of the
debt service. That's the debt that's currently outstanding, that $90 million.
The final maturity date of the certificates would not be extended beyond their current final maturity of June
1, 2027. And in today's bond market, this transaction could lock in growth savings of approximately $26.7
million, or if you look at it through a net present value lens, that's about $2.6 million or 3.7% net present
value. So there's meaningful savings to be obtained here.
So in addition to the refunding component just discussed, there is the potential to raise additional financing
proceeds to fund a portion of the capital spending anticipated by the Mid-Term Financial Plan. The MidTerm Financial Plan adopted last year by the Board assumed that all capital spending would be cash
funded, which is, of course, fantastic.
However, today's interest rate environment allows RTD to borrow tax-exempt-- borrow at tax-exempt
interest rates that are lower than we are able to earn in taxable US treasuries. This wider-than-usual
difference between the taxable and tax-exempt interest rates is what makes this beneficial, as RTD would
get to keep the difference. This is probably a good place to pause and see if there's any questions before
we move on to the next topic.

DOUG TISDALE: Are there any Directors who have questions? And I see Director Dishell has his hand
raised. You are recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, are we required to use Wells Fargo as a manager as part of this transaction?
BRENDEN MORGAN: We are not required to use Wells Fargo. The way the bank's involved here and that
we're recommending be involved here were selected is through issuing a request for information to RTD's
underwriter pool. Every five years, RTD issues an RFI to collect a pool of banks to potentially work with. So
through that competitive process, RTD-- or excuse me, Wells Fargo was put into that pool.
And more recently, we've sent out a request for information to that pool, asking them for the best ideas-best and brightest ideas on how to execute-- excuse me, how to execute this transaction and the next one
we're going to discuss. So the banks that we are recommending here were the ones that brought in the
best and brightest ideas for the district. So there's no commitment to use any of these banks. However,
that's how they were selected.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just for clarity, my hesitation is the Fed just fined Wells Fargo $67.8 million for
inadequate oversight in December. Wells Fargo was fined $3.7 billion for criminal activity. And earlier I
believe this month or in April, they settled $1 billion for additional illegal activity.
So as a director who's responsible for oversight and risk management, while I understand Wells Fargo
came up with some of these ideas, it's hard to ignore that fact. And I just-- historically-- that was just the
past few months, right? That doesn't include the long history of Wells Fargo's fines and interactions with
the law, and with regulations which keep taxpayers safe and for funds that we're responsible for overseeing.
And so I have some pretty serious concerns about using Wells Fargo as a manager, given recent activity
and historic activity.
DOUG MACLEOD: And Mr. Chair-- this is Doug MacLeod-- may I add some context?
DOUG TISDALE: Please, sir, if you would.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you. And great point, Director Dishell. And we have discussed the
Wells Fargo issue in previous meetings a while back with the Board.
One thing I could add to the discussion is with Wells Fargo, those fines were essentially leveled mainly from
practices from years ago, and they finally got through litigation. And those had to do with-- mainly with their
personal banking side of the business as opposed to the commercial and the underwriting side of the
business. So they do have separate entities.

That doesn't necessarily allay all the concerns. However, I would add that Wells Fargo has changed senior
management since that time and made many changes, taken a whole bunch of steps in terms of cleaning
up their image or trying to recover from that scandalous period. We've had several conversations. We'd be
happy to have additional conversations with the Wells Fargo representatives if any Board members would
care to do so.
I would add too that currently, RTD uses Wells Fargo for its commercial banking services, along with the
state of Colorado. The state of Colorado has used Wells Fargo for many years, if that provides any level of
comfort that the state itself has looked at some of these issues as well. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. I think Director Dishell's comments are well taken,
and your expansion and explanation regarding those is very well received and very apt, so I appreciate
that. Director Dishell, did you have anything further? Do you want to respond to that? Or otherwise, I'll go
to Director Catlin.
BOBBY DISHELL: No, I think my only comment is just because other people are doing it doesn't mean it's
good, and there's a time in which if the market doesn't react and we continue to say, no, it's OK, because
other people are doing it or because they've come out, right? They've gone through this a number of times
with scandal and fine, and we have new leadership. Scandal, fine, new leadership.
I'd be pretty hard-pressed to use Wells Fargo and to approve an action that used Wells Fargo. I know
they're our commercial banker. I've expressed my disappointment with that in the past. It's just at a certain
point, you've got to align the values of the organization and look at the companies and the vendors you're
using and use that as a market tool to see if they can bring their way into better compliance.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Dishell. We appreciate your participation in the discussion. Director
Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mine is a much more mundane and pedestrian question. What are
the current interest rates on the COPs? And what would we get with refinancing them at this point? What
are the different rates? Because I mean, we've been in a historically low interest environment, but since
those were 2013, I suspect that the interest rates were higher back then. I didn't do my research, but if you
could help me with that, I'd appreciate it.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah, that's a fantastic question. I'd be happy to answer that. Typically, municipal
bonds are typically sold with 4% and 5% coupons, so that's what RTD is paying today on these 2013
Certificates of Participation. The interest rates available to us today, we would be paying a yield of around
3% to 3.5%.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. That answered my question. I appreciate it.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And Chair Guissinger, you have a question and you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. This looks like great work. It looks-- I do expect to support this.
But the reserve of $22 million, is that tied to the COPs, the C-O-Ps, or is that-- what are we-- it seemed to
me like we had several reserves. Are we giving up anything by using that money?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Another good question. I'm happy to answer that. Yes, that $22 million debt service
reserve is tied directly to the 2013 COPs. And that $22 million came from the original financing proceeds
when we issued those COPs. So as part of the requirement of the original sale of those certificates of
participation, that $22 million needed to be set aside in a specific reserve fund held by the trustee and can
only be used at the very end of the-- the very final debt service payments was really the only thing that it
could be used for, unless those certificates of participation are refinanced.
And in today's market, we're able to-- we see these deals done all the time now where certificates of
participation that are under $100 million in size and Double A rated and look similar to ours can be sold
successfully with no debt service reserve funds. So it's really just a change in the market that allows us to
capture that $22 million, pull it out of that account, and use it to pay down debt today.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I guess I would also just say that I think Director Dishell's comments
are well taken. I will vote for this. I expect to vote for this. It looks to me like it's really well done, but it might
be worth thinking through if there's another option that's worth looking at. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Appreciate that. Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had a question about the items to be financed for five years. What kinds
of things are those?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes, that's another great question. I'd be happy to answer that one as well. That's a
moving target at this point. However, if you'll think back to last year, the Board approved the Mid-Term
Financial Plan, which included a long list of capital projects that RTD was going to do, everything from some
roof replacements on bridges, some computer equipment to some vehicle replacements, things like that.
There's a long list of capital spending that was to be done.
So before we come back to the Board next month, one of the things that Doug and his staff are working on
is really narrowing down what exactly-- what exactly we would be financing with this equipment, because
we have such a long laundry list to select from. There's work being done right now.
We're also very close to updating the Mid-Term Financial Plan later this summer. So there's a lot of work
being done right now to narrow down exactly which capital would be financed by this, and that would be
part of the information that we bring back to the Board next month.

BOB BROOM: Thank you. Is there any other changes to the bond covenants other than eliminating the
reserve fund?
BRENDEN MORGAN: The only change would be-- yes, you're right. The reserve fund. Everything else is
staying the same. We'll be issuing these tax-exempt. The final maturity will be the same. We're not
anticipating any credit ratings change. So the new certificates would look just like the existing ones from a
distance.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thanks. And was there any reference to TABOR when the bonds-- or when the COPs
were originally issued?
BRENDEN MORGAN: So these were issued as an annually appropriated obligation, so no taxpayer vote
or vote of the electors is required or was required when they were issued. So TABOR really did not come
into play when these were issued.
BOB BROOM: OK, thanks. That's all my questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any other Directors with questions before Mr. Morgan proceeds with the
balance of the presentation? I see none, so Mr. Morgan, you may continue on, sir.
BRENDEN MORGAN: OK. Thank you very much. If we could go on to the next slide, the second debt
modification that I'd like to discuss involves the issuance of a new series, 2023 FasTracks bonds, which
would be used essentially for two functions. One is to refund RTD's outstanding Series 2019A and 2021A
FasTracks bonds through a tender and purchase.
The second use of the funds from this bond issuance would be simply to fund the cost of the issuance of
the bonds. These bonds would be issued as tax-exempt at a fixed rate of interest with no reserve fund. And
the dealer manager and senior manager for this transaction would be Jeffries with Bank of America
Securities and Harvestons Securities as co-managers. Next slide.
For this proposed transaction, RTD would issue an invitation to holders of the Series 2019A and 2021A for
purchase by RTD. The savings opportunity here is twofold.
First, the bonds are trading at a discount to the price we originally sold them. As I mentioned in the quarterly
investment report, as interest rates rise, the value of outstanding bonds drop, and that is certainly the case
with these bonds. The second component here is that these bonds bear a higher taxable interest rate
compared to the tax-exempt bonds that we would replace them with. Next slide.
So as a Board, you're all probably wondering-- next question, obvious question here would be, how
beneficial might this transaction be? And that is a good question, and it's probably the most difficult one to

answer tonight. The reason for that is that we won't know the success rate of the tender until we go through
the process.
The table below on this slide shows similar transactions that have been completed in the past eight months
or so. In the far right column, you'll see the success rate for each of those transactions. And you'll notice
the success rate ranges anywhere from 6.2% on the low end to 71.4% on the high end.
RTD did a tender about a year ago, and we had a success rate of just over 20%, which at the time we felt
was good and successful. That was sort of the hurdle that we set for ourselves.
So if we assume a 20% participation rate in the tender, potential gross savings would be approximately
$74.6 million. And again, if you prefer to look at that through a net present value lens, that would translate
to $7 million or 9.4% net present value. So the success rate is sort of the first missing link here to coming
up with an estimate that you're super confident in. Next slide, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: And then just real quickly, before we move on to the next slide, just would like to add
to the tender offer itself, as Brenden mentioned, would be voluntary. So it would be a transaction where
we're looking for current bondholders to surrender their holdings of their bonds for a replacement or for a
cash offer, which we have a slight premium attached to that to make it attractive. So when we're talking
about a 20% success rate in our last transaction, when we look at that as being very successful in terms of
generating the savings that we're looking for.
One thing that I would add to that is each of the parties involved with the exception of each of the
professional services we use-- so bond counsel, disclosure counsel, underwriters, as well as our municipal
financial advisor are working on a contingent fee basis. So with this transaction, assuming the Board
approves it in July, if that tender offer is not successful in terms of generating enough interest that makes
it attractive, RTD can make the decision to cancel that transaction and only pay the fees which would
probably be reduced.
The only fees that we would be subject to would be some potential fees from the bond rating or credit rating
agencies that we use going into transactions. The rest of the fees would be waived. So I think that's worthy
of mentioning and very admirable of our teams out there, our professional teams that are handling this
transaction. So Brenden, I'll go ahead and move on to the next slide unless you had anything to add to that.
BRENDEN MORGAN: No. Thank you, Doug. That is a valuable point you just made. And I think I would
even add a little bit more on to what you were just saying there. Doug's right. The one cost that we would
be sort of putting at risk would be the rating agency fees.
Typically, or at least traditionally, RTD has used Standard and Poor's, Moody's, and Fitch for bond
issuances. We've been discussing with the banks involved and our financial advisor the possibility of cutting

that back just to one rating agency for this transaction. Since they typically each charge about $100,000
per transaction, we can really reduce our risk by cutting two of them out of this.
And as Doug mentioned, if a transaction would not go through, rating agencies typically reduce their fee
just to represent the work they did, but the transaction not being completed. So thank you, Doug, for bringing
that up.
DOUG TISDALE: Before going to the next slide perhaps-- I'm not sure if Director Broom's hand is raised in
connection with that slide, but let me recognize him at this time for a question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. What are the call dates on the securities that you're contemplating calling
at this time?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes. So good question. We are very far away from all of these call dates. They are
out in 2019-- I'm sorry, 2029 [LAUGHS] and 2030. 2029 and 2030. So we will not be calling these. We
would be trying to buy them from the owners of the securities through this tender offer.
BOB BROOM: OK. I guess it's pretty impossible to guess what an interest rate environment will be when
you do reach those dates. And so I guess if you feel like that the savings are substantial enough at this
time, then it probably makes sense to go ahead and do it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for your comments, Director Broom. And relative to this particular slide, if I
may, I have one question. We're assuming a 20% participation rate. Even if we were to go as low as 15%,
that would, as I understand it, warrant proceeding with the tender, and it would simply adjust somewhat the
potential gross savings that we're addressing. Is that correct?
BRENDEN MORGAN: That is correct. The success rate, whether it's higher or lower, would influence the
savings, again, higher or lower. And also, not to get into the weeds too much, but depending on which
maturities are owned and come back to us through a tender, if there's shorter term maturities, there's less
time to generate savings as opposed to if we get longer term maturities come back to us, there's more term- more time, excuse me-- to generate savings. So it's hard to estimate ahead of time without going through
the process.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. I appreciate that. Thank you very much. And please, now continue with your
presentation.
BRENDEN MORGAN: OK. Fantastic. So this next slide here just talks about next steps. We plan to come
back to the Finance and Planning Committee in July with bound resolutions and all of the assorted
indentures and offering documents for the Board to review and consider.

And then July 25 would be the potential Board consideration to vote on the proposed resolutions. And
assuming the Board approves one or both of these bond resolutions, then we expect we would probably
have this transaction completed and closed by the end of September. And with that, I believe that is the
end of our presentation.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much, and we can stop screen sharing now relative to this. And
let me ask, are there any other questions from any committee members first and then from the other
Directors who are on the line with us?
But any other questions from committee members relative to the presentation on this discussion item for
the two possible refundings or refinancing that we are talking about this evening? I see no-- oh, I'm sorry.
Director Guzman, there you are, sir. So Committee Member Guzman, please proceed with your questions
or comments.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Pardon my ignorance, but I am trying to keep up with a lot of financial terms that I
don't understand. So there was a continual reference to the need or not needing to have a-- trying to find it
in my notes, sorry-- a reserve fund. Can somebody please explain to this poor child [LAUGHS] what that
means, and why we don't need to have one or why we would need to have one in one of these transactions?
As simple as possible. Layman's terms is fine. I just don't know what that means.
BRENDEN MORGAN: I'd be happy to answer that. That is a good question. That is not a term you would
hear in personal finance or really anywhere outside of the bond market.
So a debt service reserve fund is essentially an account that's held at a bank that holds some amount of
money. In the case of the certificates of participation, the first modification that we talked about this evening,
that current balance is approximately $22 million.
So that $22 million will sit in a separate reserve account. RTD owns it, but we're not allowed to touch it. It
has to stay there in the event that RTD has liquidity problems and can't make its debt payments. And if that
becomes the case and the sort of worst case scenario, then our payments that are due will be made out of
that debt service reserve fund until it's depleted.
So it's really just a way to protect investors. For borrowers like RTD, it's a cost. It forces us to tie up a chunk
of funds for a long time. I believe those were a 20-year-- 20-year term financing when they were originally
issued. So we had to have this $22 million essentially just sitting there, liquid for 20 years. So the cost
increases our cost of capital. So our ability to get rid of that is fantastic. It lowers our cost of capital.
And the decision point, what means-- what decides we need one or don't need one, it really just comes
down to the bond market. What do the buyers want? And in the past, if we wanted to do a transaction

without a reserve fund, our cost will go higher. So the yield on the certificates would go higher. We'd have
a higher interest rate, essentially.
By having the reserve fund, the interest rate will come down. The investors will accept a lower interest rate.
And in today's market, they're essentially indifferent. So they're indifferent, so obviously we don't want it
because it's a cost to us. So that's the situation we're in at this point in time. Hopefully that makes sense.
DOUG MACLEOD: Director Guzman, I would also add to-- just so there's no confusion, we often talk about
reserve-- what our reserve position is at RTD and what our reserve funds are. Those are separate from
these debt service reserve funds. So the debt service reserve funds that we're discussing tonight, as
Brenden mentioned, are held with a trustee, and those are not contemplated in our discussions about RTD's
reserves, which are essentially our savings account, our rainy day fund, our available funds. As Brenden
mentioned, those funds are set aside and we can't touch them, so just wanted to add that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may supplement that, let me try this, because it's something that in construction
lending that I was involved in for many years a long time ago. I think this is a good example.
It's like you go to the bank and you borrow $100, and you're responsible to pay back $100, but they only
give you $80 because they keep the $20 in the bank just to make sure that they have a continuing income
stream. At the end of the day, you get the credit for that. But it's the $20 out of that $100 that you borrowed
that you never received. In effect, the bank just held on to it. Is that a fair summary, or have I conflated
issues there too much?
BRENDEN MORGAN: I would say that's a similar situation. I would agree.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there any other committee members or at this point any
Directors who have questions, either for Mr. Morgan or for Mr. MacLeod? I see--

KATE WILLIAMS: It's Director Williams. I'm trying to figure out how to raise my hand on my phone.
DOUG TISDALE: Ah, yes. OK. Well, I gave that instruction earlier, but I went through it very fast. In any
event, you're there now, so we recognize Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Back to the Wells Fargo discussion, since we have some unrest about that,
is it simple to reconfigure this proposition without them, or does that, to use the word, conflate things?

DOUG MACLEOD: And thank you for the question, Director Williams. It is a bit difficult with this transaction- we've already begun some of the paperwork-- but not impossible.
What I could offer through the Board office is to-- if any Board members are interested in approaching it
this way is to have a-- set up a call with the representative from Wells Fargo to ask questions, get additional
information, as we have approximately a month until we come back with the action item. We can arrange
something like that if that would be helpful and then discuss internally whether to move forward or not with
Wells Fargo. Brenden, do you have any suggestions?
BRENDEN MORGAN: I would agree, Doug. I think you described the situation well.
KATE WILLIAMS: I remember that Director Lewis was very much opposed to Wells Fargo as well. I don't
note that we as an agency have ever had any issues, and we've been banking with them for a long time.
But if Director Dishell perhaps wants to pursue this, there's an option.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. I appreciate that. I would note that I think the
explanation given by our Chief Financial Officer is something that both pleased and satisfied me regarding
these concerns. And it is part of the discussion that we did have when former Director Lewis was on the
Board and raised these matters.
I think it is appropriate that we provide as much information as we reasonably can to Director Dishell or any
other member of the Board who may have some questions about this. I don't think it's an ultimate debilitating
factor that would derail this process, but I certainly respect the inquiries made and would seek to have all
appropriate information provided in a reasonable manner so that we can proceed timely as we have
discussed. Director Catlin, I see your hand is raised, and you are now recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chairman. I did see that GM CEO Johnson had her hand raised as well,
so maybe she wants to comment before I-DOUG TISDALE: Well, I did see that. I also saw it went down, but I'll be happy to go to her anyway. So our
Madam General Manager CEO, did you want to weigh in on this? Or any other matter.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Catlin. I just wanted to
provide some context because I know there's been references made to the position in which former Director
Lewis had in relationship to the comment that Director Dishell had.
And I just wanted everybody to know that when that matter came up that a meeting was convened with
representatives of Wells Fargo of which Mr. Morgan, Mr. MacLeod, and I participated. In turn, Director
Dishell may recall we provided him with information and subsequently sent the memorandum to the Board
talking about the various avenues that that banking institution was taking.

So I wanted to provide that context because we heard you all loudly and clearly in recognizing that we all
have concerns relative to disparate treatment of marginalized populations. I wanted to get that on the record
that I heard that loudly and clearly and personally took a meeting with representatives of Wells Fargo. And
we can recirculate that correspondence if that will be helpful, but I totally appreciate what Mr. MacLeod and
Mr. Morgan have said relative to what it is that we may be able to do. So I just wanted to share that. Thank
you very much for the opportunity to opine.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I think that's very helpful to know that history. And it probably
would be beneficial just to have that information available. And if you and Mr. MacLeod can coordinate that
and perhaps a possibility of another meeting being made available to interested Directors, that would be
useful.
Before I go to Director Catlin, I note that Director Williams is off mute. And because she may be struggling
to attempt to raise her virtual hand on her phone, let me just ask. But now I see she is on mute. So Director
Williams, I'm going to take that as an indication that you do not wish to weigh in-- although you're off mute
again. Kate, is there something on your mind?
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know what's going on and off. I have nothing further to say, but thank you for your
attention.
DOUG TISDALE: You are more than welcome. Director Catlin, now we turn to you. And thank you for your
patience.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm really glad I yield the floor to GM CEO Johnson because
that served as a reminder to me of that pretty lengthy discussion, and I was satisfied at the time. I just
wanted to get a clarification.
Didn't you say, Mr. MacLeod and Mr Morgan, that we had a pool of bankers that we used, and that we used
Wells Fargo as part of that pool? And I'm not uncomfortable with using them, but I would be interested in
what that pool is if that's something that you could share. But that might be helpful for all of us to see. So
thank you very much.
DOUG MACLEOD: Certainly. Mr Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please proceed.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Catlin. Yes, we will definitely share that pool of underwriters. And
we do bring the underwriting pool periodically to the Board for approval, and we can look at what-- we'll
also communicate what the next scheduled review of that underwriting pool is as well with the Board in
anticipation of refreshing that pool at a point in time.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just-- I just know that we do have some options, even though it might
complicate things at this point. I'm not suggesting we pursue that, but it would just be nice to know. So
thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. Let me go next to Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I've already had an opportunity to ask a question, so may I defer to Director Hardwick
who had his hand up next?
DOUG TISDALE: You may, and that's very gracious of you. So Director Hardwick, let's go to you first, and
then we'll return to Dr. Guzman.
IAN HARDWICK: Mine is just-- mine is just a comment here. I'm not taking-- I'm not trying to be rude to
anybody here, but I think it's a little bit naive to think that Wells Fargo's not going to do something nefarious
again. Their revenue was $92 billion last year, or $89 billion, and then being fined $5 billion-- I'm not sure
of the exact amount-- over the course of things that they've been doing for the last 10 years. I think until
they start getting really fined for their bad-- for them being bad actors, I don't think they're going to stop
doing this, and they're going to keep looking for loopholes.
I still think this is a great deal. I'm not saying it's not. I just think that Wells Fargo is one of the worst
institutions in America, and I-- for me personally, I just hate giving them money to continue just to say, hey,
don't worry. We'll just keep looking away. Again, not saying we shouldn't do it. It's a great deal.
But it's really hard for me as a person to be like, oh, yeah, let's keep supporting when they've taken a lot of
advantage of a lot of people. So again, not asking for an answer. Just saying I think most likely, we'll
probably hear about another scandal next year or the year after, and we all shouldn't be surprised.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Hardwick. We appreciate your participation as well.
Director Guzman, now we will return to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for another opportunity to ask questions. I wanted to speak about the sales
tack reven-- sales tax revenue bonds with the FasTracks project that you're talking the Series 2023A.
Assuming you're-- you put on there an assumption of 20% participation and purchasing these back from
those that hold them, so I want to make sure I understand what this means.
Currently, the people that hold those bonds, we would be going to them and saying, we want to buy them
back from you. That's all we're doing and that's the issue? So then we would hold those bonds through the
lifetime of them, or does that end that, or what is happening there? Because I understand the premise, but
I don't understand the logistics.

BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you. I'd be happy to answer that question, if that's OK, Mr. Chair. That's a
good question. So your understanding's correct. There are approximately $500 million of these bonds
outstanding. So if we are successful at approximately 20%-- of a 20% success rate, we'll be able to buy
back approximately 100 million of those bonds.
So once RTD takes possession of those, they are essentially extinguished. However, we don't have that
cash just laying around to purchase those. We would issue new bonds, which would be the new 2023
FasTracks bonds, which would refund or refinance those old bonds that we purchased back.
DOUG MACLEOD: And Brenden, I would also add too that the reason why this tender offer is attractive is
to Director Broom's point about most of our debt as 10-year call provisions, which means that we cannot
refinance that debt until that 10-year mark occurs. There's a new-- well, 2019 I believe it was, there was a
new IRS requirement that you cannot advance refund either these bonds, advance refunding being before
the call date.
We put that provision in each of our debt issuances-- for the most part in each of them to allow RTD some
flexibility in the future. So 10 years down the road from issuing that debt, interest rates might be attractive
or there might be a need to refinance and do some changes based on the financial situation 10 years down
the road. So it gives us some flexibility.
Because we don't have that opportunity, since these are 2019 and 2021 bonds, instead of refinancing them,
which we essentially cannot do, and it wouldn't save us money anyway necessarily, we're asking bond
holders to sell it back. And what makes it-- may make it attractive to some bond holders is that the interest
rate that they are getting paid on those bonds are at such a depressed rate versus the current market. If
we can entice some of them to sell those bonds back to them, they get their money back. They can reinvest
it at current rates. And so I just look to Brenden as to why this might be attractive. Is there anything I missed,
Brenden?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah, I think you nailed it, Doug. Again, it's twofold, really. It's number 1, we can
buy them back at a discount, so we can buy them cheaper than what we sold them for. So that's a benefit
to us. And then the new interest rates that we issue the new debt at would be lower than the current rate
that we're paying. So we really have sort of a twofold benefit there.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And then also in terms of TABOR, are we going to face any issues there with
anything? Because I don't know what ramifications would look like. Thank you.
BRENDEN MORGAN: That's another good question. So TABOR essentially allows for refunding of
outstanding debt as long as it's done for savings, so there will be no negative TABOR impact or any
consequences there.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guzman. We return then to Director Dishell next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. I know a lot of people have commented about my comment, so I just
wanted to speak for myself. But a few things. I think I'm happy to talk with someone from Wells Fargo. I
know we had a lengthy discussion before, and my recollection coming out of that discussion was that we
were going to explore what it would mean to look at other public depository banks that are allowed under
state statute, and I think a number of us just lost steam on other issues before we were able to really bring
that full circle and come back to it.
In looking at the structure, it's hard-- I'm pretty hard-pressed on why, if RBC Capital is a senior manager,
Stifel a co-manager why Wells has to be there as part of the structure. And again, we talk about the bad
things they do. And at a certain point, you have to take a position that causes them to no longer make profit
if you want them to change.
And so I'm happy to discuss offline as well, but it seems like someone else could bring the debt to the table
and the capital stack. It might not mean as strong of a monetary position, but typically in business you get
what you pay for. And sometimes if you're doing business with folks who are less than savory or
unsatisfactory or who have different moral guideposts, it might mean a better economic deal, but there's a
cost, right?
You know what you're funding. You're funding redlining. You're funding a company who gets fined billions
of dollars every single year. And so I'm happy to talk with them. I'd be intrigued to hear. But I'd frankly be
more interested to talk to RBC about why Wells has to be the co-manager here. Because if RBC is the one
deciding who its co-managers are as the senior manager who reports up to them, that sounds like that's
the decision maker, not Wells. Is that off base? Who brought Wells in, right? How did that structure come
to be?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, you may choose to answer that if you can.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So essentially, what happens when we put out a request for
information, we send it to our underwriting pool, approved underwriting pool that the Board has approved,
which includes Wells Fargo. We send that out for the best ideas, knowing that there's some opportunities
to possibly refinance or do some of these transactions we're suggesting. We send that out to our
underwriting pool participants and ask for their best ideas. They send in proposals. I believe we received
12 proposals, Brenden.
BRENDEN MORGAN: I believe that's right, yes. 12. Sounds right.

DOUG MACLEOD: 12 proposals. And then what we do with those is we look at the best ideas, which are
most beneficial. Also take into consideration some other factors as well, including, as you mentioned,
Director Dishell, size and capital ability and breadth and the ability to participate in this transaction as a comanager in terms of the number of investors. So essentially, we couldn't use a small underwriter that doesn't
have that reach, those types of contacts. Doesn't mean we have to use Wells Fargo necessarily. There's
that factor.
And you may have noticed Harvestons was one of the underwriters in the transaction I believe on the bonds.
Harvestons is our DBE, certified DBE firm that we use these underwriting transactions. So there are certain
considerations that go into that as well. So we look for best ideas.
We also try to rotate occasionally through our underwriters. Just over the years, we try to-- since they're
part of our underwriting pool, we try to give business to each participant. So that's kind of the selection
process.
RBC, Brenden, I do not believe-- I believe that decision is solely in RTD's selection, obviously with some
agreement from the participants. Right, Brenden?
BRENDEN MORGAN: No, that's correct, yes. It would be RTD's decision. And assuming that-- in this case,
assuming RBC and Stifel and all the banks involved, we're comfortable with whoever we put into that
underwriters syndicate together, essentially, into that group together. The mix that we often look for is some
institutions have a better sales force that targets institutional investors. And of course, RBC is very good at
that. Stifel's very good at that, and they're also good at retail.
But the one thing that Wells Fargo does have in this particular mix with these three is they have a large
retail footprint. They have lots of branches scattered all around the country. So they have a retail sales
force that would sell our bonds at a retail level. So that's one of the things that we look at when we're looking
at putting banks together for a bond sale.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. And that retail level is the exact thing that they have been fined for, right? That
retail footprint, their retail accounting is the exact issue that they've had with the Fed, with Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, and with DOJ. Right?
DOUG TISDALE: I believe it may be a misstatement. I believe that when speaking of retail here, we're
talking about retail investment funds as opposed to consumer funds, personal banking. So I think that's a
difference. Let me just, for the sake of the record, by the way, note that Vice Chair Davidson has apparently
concluded his city council participation that he enjoyed this evening and has joined us for the discussion.

We are on, Vice Chair, the discussion item relative to the debt financing-- refinancings, the two different
refundings that are being discussed here. Let me turn to either Mr. MacLeod or Mr. Morgan if you have any
further comments based upon the Chair's observations relative to Director Dishell's input.
BRENDEN MORGAN: I think, Chair, your comments, I would agree with the comments that you made. And
I would also add that-- so by retail, yes, we mean both retail investors directly and as well as the retail funds
that would be invested in by retail investors.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. But just-- I mean, so we're all speaking the same language, retail investors are
normal human beings, customers who they are going to their private net worth, private wealth funds to go
tap their networks and say, there's something available for you. So it's the same group, right? These just
happen to be slightly higher net worth individuals.
So it would be great from the Board's perspective to see, what would the economic impact be to choose
someone else who has retail capacity, right? Because that's what we're talking about, right? This
syndication came together with the pricing we got, and Wells was likely chosen because of its retail footprint,
which, frankly is always under fire by federal regulators, as well as the terms on which it was able to deliver.
And so unless I'm off base, I'm presuming there is someone else who has retail funds and retail investors
who provided a bid here.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well, Director Dishell, may I take it that you would be happy if Mr. MacLeod and
Mr. Morgan were to provide some supplemental information for us before bringing this matter back to the
Board in July that would address the specific concerns-- excuse me-- that you have raised here in detail
during the course of this meeting? Is that correct?
BOBBY DISHELL: That's correct. Yes. And I know everyone keeps painting it as just consumers, but I
would like to note for the record that the Fed fine was not for consumer accounts. It's for failure to supervise
subsidiaries.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Director Hardwick, you are
recognized.
IAN HARDWICK: So we asked if there were negative consequences about-- for TABOR. Are there positive?
Is there anything positive that happens to TABOR because of this?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Good question. I'd be happy to answer that. The easy answer is no, there's really
nothing positive that comes out of this from a TABOR perspective other than some technical things about
our total debt repayment. We're staying below that cap a little bit more, but there's really no real tangible
benefit to RTD.

DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Hardwick? Thank you, sir. Director Broom, you are recognized,
sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Was Wells in the original selling group?
BRENDEN MORGAN: I hate to speak off the top of my head, but I believe they were not. We can certainly
circle back with that information as well.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any other Directors who have comments relative to this discussion item at this
time? Seeing none, we will proceed. I think, Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Morgan, you understand the very heartfelt
concern raised by at least two Directors here regarding Wells Fargo.
And therefore, I assume you will have an opportunity to provide more information to this committee when
you bring this item back as a recommended action. Let me ask the two of you, are there any other specific
questions that you would like to address at this time with the committee so that we might offer you some
guidance?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Mr. Chair, for the opportunity. And yes, we understand what the direction
is. We will work with General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson, coordinate through the Board office to
provide the information requested, and also coordinate any further discussions with the group. And also, to
speak internally amongst ourselves about a path forward that we can possibly present to this body.
Brenden, did you have anything else?
BRENDEN MORGAN: No, I don't believe I have anything else to add.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, gentlemen. Let me now recognize Vice Chair, who has his hand
raised while he's standing outside the City Hall there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair, for indulging me here. And apologies for being delayed this
evening. I just wanted to take a moment to thank Mr. MacLeod for bringing this forward as a discussion
item to gather some feedback and gauge feedback and explain these types of transactions ahead of the
recommended action. I think that's very helpful.
I did have the pleasure of being briefed on this move, so I'd also be remiss in not thanking Mr. Morgan for
continuing to be very creative in looking for all of these opportunities. The only way to eat an elephant's one
bite at a time, so everything we can chip away at is very helpful. So thank you for the creativity and thank

you to the team for bringing this forward as a discussion item to allow the Board to digest this ahead of this
being a recommended action. I think that concludes my remarks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. We appreciate that. And all I can say is when eating an
elephant one bite at a time, if you can get a $100 million bite, that's a pretty good bite, so let's acknowledge
that as well. Let me ask now, are there any other matters that the committee members would like to bring
forward at this time for consideration? Director Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I have a general question. It relates to Finance and Planning. I don't expect an
answer right now because this is going to be a little bit out of left field.
But after having gone through the Civic Leader Academy, we did-- we were requested to present individual
action plans having taken into consideration the need to look at funding and what we pay and all of those
things. I know that there are a few details I'm missing, so I don't know exactly who would be able to answer
this in terms of financing, but I'd be really interested in understanding.
The Board has a commitment that every effort should be made to incorporate sustainability in the
implementation and program within the authorized schedule and budget and in all other RTD activities as
well. That's directly from us. It was approved by the Board previously.
So in that same vein and as we're looking at finances, I would be interested to find out what the rules are
with public utilities, specifically how we may or may not integrate microgrids in our properties with public
services like Xcel or other utility groups throughout the district where we might be able to retrofit some of
our facilities with solar panels or wind turbines to collect that energy. And instead of doing it in an isolated
way, meaning not connected to the grid, be able to collect that energy at those places that are standing
still, but still usable with our 300 days of solar power every year and constant winds that come off of the
mountains as one aspect.
I don't know-- I'm certain that there is probably some rules as a state agency and we are not primarily
responsible for how energy is created, but we do use quite a bit of it. At most of our train stops and our park
and rides throughout the district-- I think there are 175 total active right now-- we do have some sort of
landscaping. And so it doesn't escape my attention that we should be considering whether that's turf or if it
is zeroscaped for our climate with plants that are resilient to drought.
And I know in Denver just recently, our city council did pass rules in conjunction with Denver Water that we
could collect rainwater up to a certain amount per residential property. I don't know if that's a possibility to
do where we have large concrete deserts, if there would be a way to collect some of the rainwater or
snowfall and use that to irrigate a zeroscaped landscape that creates a welcoming environment from an
aesthetic point of view.

And so just as something to consider going forward with Finance and Planning, is there a way to do some
of that work? And what are the rules that we'd be looking at in doing some of those changes? And what are
the challenges we might face with, for example, Xcel Energy in integrating any of those grids that could
potentially be producing energy for lights, for vending machines, for the elevators that are constant at all of
our stops and runs?
While we do the work towards BRT, are we considering the design potential of that as we're doing work
within the different parts of the city? And it is something I'm passionate about, so passion is one of our
values, and I want to bring that to the table to consider.
We've also had the conversation before about lowering greenhouse gases and being mindful of how we
use our resources. And so considering how we close that loop and find ways to capture carbon, find ways
to reduce our dependence on nonrenewable forms of energy, and what that would bring to community
value, savings, and the other matters in our strategic plan going forward. It's something I would like to
consider through this committee. I just don't have the answers.
And I'm really concerned if I were to bring something forward what I would hear is, well, we can't do that as
an agency because Xcel under state law doesn't allow us to do that, or Denver Water's not going to allow
us to hold back any of the rain that falls on our parking lot, even though we would be returning it either to
the system to be used in other ways, our trains. Potentially electric vehicles that we would be powering in
the future would need some of that energy back.
It's a small, tiny amount, and I don't want it to be something that's just a look, right? Something that's
[SPEAKING SPANISH] in Spanish because it's in the moment. I want it to be something that can be
sustainable going forward.
And I'm thinking along the lines of the indigenous thought of the seven generations, 150 years from now,
will the actions that we take today affect my grandchildren's grandchildren's children? And so anybody
who's on this call that is interested in this, that knows anything about it that might be able to provide some
direction, please, please reach out to me so we can work on that. And Directors, I know it's totally off base
from what we came here to talk about tonight on this agenda, but I want to put it in front of you because I
really think that this is something we need to discuss. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guzman. It's not really off base. We're on other matters,
and so that's appropriate. And I heard at least four topics in there. Micro cells, alternative fuel sources,
zeroscaping, water reclamation.
And I know you do not expect answers tonight, and I know we're not going to give you answers tonight. But
I also know that as we have done with other questions raised by Directors in the past, and as you have just
seen with recent emails, we do have staff respond to those, so we will get more information back on that.

So thank you very much for that heartfelt and passionate discussion. Director Hardwick, you are recognized,
sir, on other matters.
IAN HARDWICK: So this is not necessarily dissimilar from Director Guzman. I'm not expecting answers. I
do have some questions. I can't remember-- I know that in the past, RTD was not allowed to utilize park
and rides to build on themselves, to make profits. I feel like that may have changed in recent-- with the
recent state legislature, but I'm not sure.
But I'm wondering, if it is possible, have we ever considered becoming our own real estate developer and
building affordable housing or social housing or market rate housing at our RTD stations? This land is so-it's so big and so expansive, and it feels like a missed opportunity for us not to utilize that land for ourselves
and generate revenue in maybe an enterprise fund or something.
And if we can't do it, should we look into doing it and going to the state leg next year or the year after and
pursuing this? Because this is a great opportunity, one, for us to separate ourselves from a TABOR cliff
and also give ourselves a huge number of riders. If we did this right, we could have thousands of riders at
the ready, right there, and figure out how to accommodate the parking appropriately.
But I mean, I've been to some of our stations all across the metro area, and they are so big, and apartments
there right next to the stations would just be amazing. And I know a lot of people have asked for that, but
I'm just wondering, can we do it? And again, not expecting an answer right now, but I think this would be
amazing. And I'm done.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Hardwick. And as with Director Guzman, you raise an exceptionally
important and interesting point. And we have had a great deal of discussion about this in the past. And yes,
there has been some change to state law-- excuse me-- regarding our ability to use our property. And we
have engaged with many, many other third parties regarding development, and so forth.
That is something that I would love to have as follow-up on. I know that staff can give us some additional
information on that. I am confident that General Counsel can give us a picture of the current law in short
and understandable terms so you have a better grip on that.
And then we can talk about things that we have done, because as you may know, we adjusted our transitoriented development criteria a couple of years back to address affordable housing, and so forth. So there's
a lot there to be discussed, and we can do it. All right. I see one new hand from a new face raised now on
other matters. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just got back from voting and slid in just in time to catch other
matters. And I've been sitting on this question. And it's a legal question, but I have colleagues here, so I

want to raise it, again, understanding that staff can follow up. It's a follow-- it's a piggyback on Director
Hardwick's point.
I have kind of received conflicting information if we are legally permitted as an agency who, if we chose, to
sell property perhaps below market value or in a less competitive space to stay nonprofit developers,
housing developers, or folks that we know in the community, whether it's Habitat for Humanity or Brothers
Redevelopment when we do have property up for sale. So I would just like an answer, if that's something
we're permitted to do.
And then I guess the other question-- or maybe it's just a comment. Maybe perhaps as an agency when we
do talk about housing and affordable housing in one of our next projects or proposals, we might even be
able, pending budget and Board approval, chip in a few dollars if we do end up partnering or selling or
leasing land to one of those nonprofit area partners. So half question, half comment, and I appreciate what
the previous two Directors said as it relates to our social responsibility as an agency as well. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. And I know that as with other questions you and the
others have raised in the past, we will have staff provide some further comment on that and response. I'm
not going to put anyone on the carpet now and ask for an immediate response because these are thoughtful
issues.
Any other other matters that any Director wishes to bring up at this point in time? I see no hands raised.
And for those of you who might be on a phone and can't raise your hand easily, may I ask, speak up if you
have another other matter, because this is your last call.
Hearing none, then let me advise that the next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for
Tuesday, July the 11th. That's Tuesday, July 11, for the Finance and Planning Committee meeting.
And seeing no other discussion and no other Directors in line at this point, I will declare that the meeting is
adjourned as of 6:46 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I thank you all for your participation, and I can only say,
go Nuggets.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good night.
SPEAKER: Thanks. Good night.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.

