Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, March 6, 2007
Page 1 of 2
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 6, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, March 6, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

Please Note:

Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meets the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Committee Chair: Director Chacon; Vice-Chair, Director Elfenbein;
Chairperson Martinez, Director Busck, Director Brohl, Director Daly,
Director Kemp, Director Kinton, Director Quinlan, Director McMullen,
Director Quinlan, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick

Member Absent:

Director Pulliam

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Ron Dodsworth, Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack
Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, and Phil Washington.
Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Dennis Cole , Kevin Diviness, Carol
Duecker , Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova ,Jennifer Heisler, Caitlin
Magee, Robert Merriman, Richard Morton, Scott Roberts, Daria
Serna, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Errol Stevens, Pauletta
Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner
Kevin Flynn, Jeff Lieb, L.W. Morrow, Doug Gragg,
****

Others Present:

Call to Order:
I.

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:05 p.m.

FasTracks Monitoring Update
Cal Marsella walked through a detailed presentation on the corridors and
provided current status of the indicated items:
a. DUS
b. East Corridor
c. Gold Line
d. I-225 Corridor
e. North Metro Corridor
f. Northwest Rail
g. US 36 BRT
h. West Corridor

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, March 6, 2007
Page 2 of 2
i. Lone Tree and Southwest Ext.
j. Maintenance Facilities
k. Railroad Negotiations
l. Public Information/Involvement
m. Quality Management
n. Annual Program Evaluation
o. Changes in Costs from Original
p. Program wide
Extensive discussion, questions and follow up items were identified from this
presentation. They include:
a. Assess cost differential DMU/EMU as part of VE analysis
b. Look at express rail service in context of EISs, particularly in the US 36
corridor
c. Review cost of material breakout as a % of what factor that can be used
to establish a frame of reference
d. Provide information on procedures operators are to follow when
passengers do not provide correct fare or show fare media (i.e. fare
collection policy)
e. Explore possibility of security (Wackenhut) random walk on route 15 at
night
f. Who pays for add-on stations?
g. What happens to the allocated funding for US BRT ($193M) if CDOT
does not obtain funding?
h. Emulate the future rail service between Nine Mile and Fitzsimmons with
the current bus service in anticipation of change
i. Shared cost of 40/40th station
j. Presentation summary of audit and sign off approval process (i.e.
requested checklist from Director Brohl)
For a copy of the FasTracks update presentation, please refer to the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Minute Notebook.
II.

Other Matters – Issues related to Value Engineering were discussed as part of
the overall presentation by Cal Marsella.

III.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
will be April 3, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

IV.

Adjournment – Director Chacon adjourned the meeting at 6:35 p.m.

