2020-08-11
RTD Operations and Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The RTD Operations and Customer Service Committee,
chaired by Kate Williams, Director of District A, will now come to order. We are convened as of- I still have 5:30 Mountain Daylight time on my phone. I would respectfully ask that everyone
connected to this call please mute your phones and set your ringers to silent. I'm going to do that
to mine right now.
I'd like you all to note that, under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interests of public health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, meetings will be primarily audio-recorded. Those audio recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practical on the board's website.
You can visit rtd-denver.com, and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of
Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, would you like to be acknowledged? I
would ask that you please announce your name and wait for me to call on you before proceeding
to speak. We have a lot of people on the phone with us. And speaking out of turn will only add
confusion to them, to the record, and to the proceedings.
Please note, at the appropriate time during our discussions and voting processes during this
evening, I will call on each Director in turn. So know that your time to speak will come. And if
possible, please hold your comments
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Somebody is not muted. Who should be. I'll just note that for the record.
At RTD, safety is our core value. So we're going to have a safety briefing, as we usually do. And
since there have continued to be an uptick in COVID-19 cases nationwide, it's more important than
ever that we all follow some practices, since doing so is for your safety, as well as the safety of
others.
Frequently and thoroughly wash your hands. Monitor your health and the health of those close to
you. Be particularly alert to the three most prevalent symptoms of COVID-19, which are fever,
coughing, and shortness of breath.
Minimize the time spent in poorly ventilated indoor public areas, especially when a large number
of people are present. Wear a mask at all times in public spaces, whether indoors or outdoors, when
you are unable to maintain physical distancing of at least 6 feet. Thank you, all, for participating
in those actions.

Tonight, as part of this committee, we have two recommended actions on the agenda. The first
recommended action is the award of the Wagon Road, Broomfield and Evergreen contracted
FlexRide services. Recommended action reads as follows.
"It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract with Via Mobility
Services, known as Via for the provision of contracted Wagon Road, Broomfield, and Evergreen
FlexRide transit services. This contract is for two years, with no option years. The first year of
contract amount for the service is $981,288 and the second year is $894,366, for a total not to
exceed amount $1,875,654.
In addition, RTP will reimburse the contractors' direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
$113,305 for the contract year one and $106,010 for contract year two, for a total not to exceed
amount of $219,316 for the two-year contract term. The total two-year not to exceed amount for
the FlexRide service and fuel $2,094,970. This recommended action supports the following
General Manager's goals-- core goal number 1, successful delivery of transit services, and core
goal number 3, strong financial management." Do I have a motion?
JUDY LUBOW: So moved. Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow? Do I have a second.
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. At this time, I'm going to ask the staff to
present any pertinent information regarding the action. Noting that the action was included in the
packet, Directors have had time to ask questions just offline. Directors and members, please state
your name for the record each time you speak. We have staff who's to present this?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. Madam Chair. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: The staff seeking authority to award the Wagon Road in Broomfield FlexRide
services, both of these contracts are set to expire September 30, 2020. And the Evergreen contract
at FlexRide, which will expire December 31. A couple of points to take in consideration. The
Wagon Road and FlexRide services are primarily grant-funded.
So because of the grant requirements, these contracts have been modified to meet the terms and
conditions associated with these grants. We did not have these terms and conditions in previous
awards, so we cannot draw against these grants until we have these modified terms and conditions
in place. So it's very important that we get these contracts renewed.

Also, the SRC has announced that they will not continue service past Evergreen. So it's necessary
to award the providers so that we can continue services with Evergreen. One final point-- this
contract is a maximum dollar amount, where these contracts are just like other contract services
based upon the actual hours of operation.
So if we do reduce COVID service operations, we pay based upon those particular hours of
operation. There's a full briefing in your board packet. I'm happy to answer any questions you may
have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. I'll go to the directors in alphabetic order if there
are any questions on this? Please have your questions ready when I call on you. Once we've gone
through everybody on their questions, then we'll do the roll call vote. I'm going to go alphabetically
this time. That would be Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Directory Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. My wife is the Executive Director of the TMA that
manages the grant and the service related to the 144 FlexRide service. And out of an abundance of
caution, I will be recusing myself from the vote on this matter. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions or comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll support this. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have just one question. I think this has come to the Board before, and there
were some concerns from staff about this specifically and from a lens of equity, and I just wanted
to know how we mitigated that concern.
FRED WORTHEN: I'm sorry. I don't understand the question, ma'am.

SHONTEL LEWIS: So this came to the board I don't remember how long ago-- a few weeks, a
month or two ago. And one of the things that we heard from Heather was that if we were to move
forward in this that there were some concerns around equity. And I just wanted to make sure we
mitigate those concerns.
FRED WORTHEN: I don't-- these contracts have not been in front of the board before, I think that
may have been on a different issue, there are no equity issues associated with these contracts that
I'm aware of, ma'am.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's Director Williams. And I think that Mr. Worthen is right. The
discussions that we had before concerning Via had to do with their Access-a-ride services.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just wanted to make sure that those concerns were addressed.
KATE WILLIAMS: Cool. Thank you for that. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'll be a no vote on these because I'd like to keep this open for conversation
as much as possible at the board meeting, especially in light of our call for transit vouchers and
the level of high subsidy that we have associated with the flex ride services. So it's not really a
question. It's just a statement to reinforce where I'll be going with this. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Williams. And it's actually Director Menten's comment that
triggered the idea when I'm looking at this. Normally, or say frequently, a lot of the contracts will
have option periods built in. This one does not. Is there anticipation of doing something different
along the lines of vouchers or alternatives?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. We typically do not do long
FlexRide contracts themselves. But part of the reason why we're recommending a two-year
contract right now is to leave us flexibility for things that may stem from Reimagine down the
road. And these contracts are also absorbed by current operators. Via is already operating services
for us.
And one final thing, going back to Director Menten's comments, both Wagon Road and
Broomfield have grant funding associated with them. RTD is only contributing local match on the
Wagon Road. Broomfield is absorbing all of the local match on the extra services on the
Broomfield site.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen.

KEN MIHALIK: Yes, thank you. That's all I have. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the comments by Mr.
Worthen in responding to Director Mihalik because I think that was useful to hear. And I have no
other comments or questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No comments or questions from me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Not to throw a monkey wrench into the
proceeding, but I maybe need legal counsel's opinion. I serve on the TMA board for Smart
Commute Metro North, which is involved with one of the two entities described in this matter.
I forgot about that situation until Director Buzek indicated his disclosure. I made the second to the
motion. I don't think that I need to recuse myself, but I would like to have an opinion from our
legal counsel to do that procedure the right way.
KATE WILLIAMS: Counselor?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, this is Melanie Snyder General Counsel. So Director Whitmore, just
based on what you said, I'm not sure that I have enough information. I think that my general advice
is to err on the side of caution, and to abstain if there's any question about a potential or perceived
conflict of interest.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: We accept him as a second on the motion, and then allow him to recuse
himself on the vote?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think-- I think it's OK to accept another second. But I think it's cleaner if
he abstains from the vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
TROY WHITMORE: I'm very OK with that. I will abstain from the vote. Sorry about the mix-up
there.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's fine. Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have no questions, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So now I have no questions or comments myself. I'm going to go in
reverse order now, which means I'm going to call on the chair first, and I'm going to ask you for
your vote. And I'm going to pick up my pen and start counting. So Chair Rivera-Malpiede, what's
your vote on this?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm in agreement. Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Whitmore, you can't vote. Never mind. Director Walker.
Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Walker is yes. Yes for Walker.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I am a yes, but I'm wondering, is Director Whitmore still the second?
KATE WILLIAMS: He can be the second according to our counsel. He just cannot cast a vote.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. All right, thank you. I'm a yes on this. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek, you're abstaining or recusing or all of the above?
VINCE BUZEK: All the above, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: And myself. I am a yeah, which gives me total of 11 yeses, two abstentions,
and two no's, which adds up to 15. So the motion passes. The no votes were Director Menten and
Director Lewis. OK, the next item on the agenda is recommended action approval of prioritizing
alternative safety measures. And if everybody will bear with me for just a minute, I'll go through
that paperwork. I'm just going to read the line stating that there's an action that is added to the
committee agenda as a Director-initiated request pursuant to RTD Board bylaws, Article 6, Section
1(f), which requires a formal motion and second of committee meeting.
And the motion is recommended by Directors Lewis, Walker, and myself that the Board of
Directors approve the resolution, which I don't believe has a number as yet, series of 2020. The
recommended action supports the following General Manager's goal-- core goal number two,
strong and ethical leadership do I have a motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes it was.
KATE WILLIAMS: And do I have a second?
JEFF WALKER: Second from Walker.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Before we proceed to the discussion on this
item, I would like to exercise my prerogative as the Committee Chair to note that several Directors,
as well as the Board Office, have been inundated with phone calls and emails from RTD
employees, including a number of our operatives and street supervisors regarding this action. I
want to take a moment to speak to those of you joining us on the phone this evening to acknowledge
that we received your comments, emails, etc. And we greatly appreciate that you have reached out
to this Board to let us know about your concerns. With that, I would ask Director Lewis, the

originator of this action, to present any pertinent information she would like to share with us at
this time, noting that this action was included in the packet that was published and distributed on
Thursday. Director Lewis, you have the floor.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to take the opportunity to talk
about how we got to this process. So I originally presented a variation of this to the Board during
other matters back in June. And then we did it again in June, and then again in July. And the act
was to co-create this resolution with other Directors to provide your input so that we could, to
some degree, imagine what safety and security should look like for all of our constituents and for
all of our riders, as well as our operators.
And so I wanted to start with that. I hadn't received a lot of feedback. But of the feedback that I
was able to receive from Directors, the resolution that I have before each of you, I'm really
impressed with our security contracts, our intergovernmental agreements, and does not talk about
our internal resources.
And the hope is that we can begin to have conversations, in the form of a work group, to think
about how we can redesign safety. I mean, what safety looks like for our operators, and how we
can have the approach that matches the incidences that are safety and security folks may be dealing
with on a day-to-day basis. And so the ask within this resolution is to, one-- the hope is that I, one,
identified the pot of money for which recommendations could come from a committee, to which I
talked to you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
In fact, I appreciate you giving me that suggestion, to put this workgroup forward who could begin
to put recommendations forward to really define what safety and security means for our riders and
our operators, as well as put forth recommendations that might make the most sense. And so this
is what I put before each one of you-- the opportunity to want to identify the funding, and to
reimagine what safety and security can look like as defined by our community, and have that
approach be one of community. I will stop talking, because again, you all have had this in your
possession for quite some time, and so happy to answer any questions that folks might have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. So when I read the resolution, it says that it's
resolved that the RTP Board of Directors direct RTD General manager to appropriate $27.3 million
to invest in the expansion of mental behavior and social support, such as social workers, medical
professionals, homeless outreach workers, transit ambassadors, and any additional support
identified to respond to constituents interaction. And then there are a couple other parts to it. But
I understand from your statement that we are actually looking to set up further looks-- to look
deeper and further at this by committee. Is that correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Exactly. I think you can see, within the body of the resolution, if you would
like for me to answer that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, OK. I just wanted to make sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, OK. I didn't know if it was a question. As you can see within the body
of the resolution, there is an ask for the Board and the General Manager to convene by September

on the Community, Safety, and Oversight workgroup. And so the workgroup essentially will be
tasked with identifying, defining, and working through, similar to the past program working group,
or even Reimagine RTD, a set of stakeholders who would put forth recommendations about how
we could use the money that we've identified with the security contracts in our intergovernmental
agreement. I hope that answers your question.
KATE WILLIAMS: It does. Thank you very much. OK, I'm going to go around. And if you're
good for now with that, I'm going to go around the rest of the Directors and open it up to discussion.
And I'm going to go this time in alphabetical order, instead of reverse alphabetical order. So I
would call on Director Broom, if you have questions or comment.
BOB BROOM: I don't have any questions or comments. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I guess I have a number of issues with the resolution
itself and also the manner in which it's come before us and the support has been garnered. I find
the resolution vague, ambiguous, and internally inconsistent.
It has a $27.3 million fiscal note. And I don't know what is supposed to happen with that money.
And as Director Lewis just explained, it appears she doesn't either. She wants us to set aside $27.3
million, and then figure out what to do with it. But she's very clear on terminating the contract with
Allied Security.
The resolution then goes on and talks about how it's important that Allied Security officers should
be accompanied by crisis intervention teams. So again, that's the internal inconsistency. I have a
real problem with something with such a huge fiscal note being so unclear and so uncertain. I have
also had a number of calls from my constituents in District J, and they're very opposed to this
resolution, because of the fact it completely does away with more typical form of security. Where
there's a lot of talk about defunding the police now in this time.
But defunding the police does not mean eliminating the police, which is what this resolution does- other than the dozen RTD police officers. Defunding the police means taking away from the
police duties that are not police-related, such as dealing with people experiencing a mental health
crises or helping unhoused communities. Those are not typically police duties. So defunding the
police means taking a small portion of their money away from them so agents can be hired that
can take care of these non-police functions. And the police can go about their duties.
So this isn't a defunding the police resolution. It's an elimination of the police. And my constituents
up here are pretty strongly opposed. I also got an email recently from an individual, and I'll read
some of this because I think it's really important.
He speaks in opposition to the resolution, saying, "As a Black man, I stand with the Black Lives
Matter movement, and I understand what motivates others to support a resolution like this. I've
been held at gunpoint by officers sworn to protect me for absolutely no reason beyond the color of
my skin. As a society, we have a long way to go and I appreciate Director Lewis's sincere efforts.

But as an RTD bus operator for over two decades, I can tell you that our calls for help need an
immediate response. Even with hundreds of contracted security guards and off-duty police
officers, we still feel very alone out there on the streets when threats erupt. As the Chairperson of
our Unions Operator Assault Committee, I see the devastation wrought on fellow operators
because even the security we have is not enough. The threat of violence against your frontline
employees at RTD and First Transit is very real. I go with those operators to their court appearances
and push prosecutors to send an example, including use of the Endangering Public Transportation
felony where appropriate.
These operators were victimized just for doing their jobs. I've read the resolution, including
whereas transit security officers Allied transit security and secondary employment police officers
should be accompanied by crisis intervention teams trained to respond to mental, behavioral, and
social challenges. But the problem is this resolution fires all but less than a dozen cops who work
directly for RTD.
I'd love a justice system where counseling or treatment is provided to offenders after they are no
longer an immediate threat to me and my co-workers. I don't know if providing mental health and
social services to offenders is RTD's job. But it clearly is your job to keep me and my fellow
operators safe. I just have to wonder which group is next if one or two bad apples are in the bunch.
If the actions of one or two bus or rail operators are so egregious, does that mean the entire staff
needs to be replaced, or should they be offered retraining and support, things already in place that
RTD."
I think that email by a 20-year bus operator speaks volumes. And it concerns me. Director Lewis
always speaks in favor of our frontline operators in terms of safety and security and the COVID
response. But they're clearly concerned, and our union is in direct opposition of this resolution as
well.
I also have an issue about how this was socialized and how Director Lewis garnered support. I
didn't speak to Director Lewis. I heard about this in June. It came out in a very rough format, and
the format we have before us now is virtually unchanged. I saw that draft back in June, and this
one was a little changed.
But instead of building consensus among the Board, and working to build support among the
Board, we get inundated with emails and phone calls, many of them that threaten our positions in
the event that we fail to support this resolution. Well, I'm not certain of Director Lewis's intention,
and the resolution is far too confusing for me to try to determine what they are. But I assume
Director Lewis has good intentions. However, this resolution is ill-advised, and I can't support it.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I was inundated with emails and phone calls-- the
phone calls mostly coming today from constituents who were made aware of this just recently.
And the phone calls were all in opposition to this particular resolution. And I also was impressed

by the very last minute effort from some of our operators to get signatures on a letter about the
concern for their personal safety.
But I got an email from a constituent this morning, and he brought up another perspective that I
had not yet thought about. And I'd like to read his excerpts of his letter to you all. He said, "Even
though I believe that reduction or adjustments may be in order regarding the use of these transit
officers in general, I would take exception to the removal of the transit security officers on the
commuter rail train. RTD/DTP chose to substitute the traditional train conductor of the body of
the train with these officers in 2016.
As a frequent rider of the Commuter Rail line, these officers not only provide a sense of security
and customer service. But they are also specifically trained on passenger train emergency
preparedness, parenthesis, required by the Federal Railroad Administration, end paren, and able to
respond to any emergencies, such as a derailment, fire, smoke, evacuation, et cetera, this in
addition to fare verification and customer service. Removing these officers based on the current
political trend, without any data or justification, or addressing the potential hazard to RTD
passengers that may be created, I feel is short-sighted, and not in the best interest of RTD and our
customers. if these officers are removed from the Commuter Rail lines, RTD will have the expense
of replacing them with another employee that is trained on passenger train safety preparedness and
other rail safety rules as per FRA regulations.
This will require more of the taxpayer money to be spent to replace an already trained individual
with very specific skill sets in both safety and security with another trained one in safety. Even
though other adjustments regarding RTD security officers in general may be needed with
additional data and justification, I encourage you to vote against removing these TSOs those from
the Commuter Rail operations."
I thought that that was a slightly different perspective than what we've heard. I also got some more
rather emotional emails from customers who really feel that their safety is threatened, particularly
in the stations. So I do think that there are some good elements in this resolution, and I know that
it is well-intended.
But I do have some concerns with the details as it's presented in this resolution. I personally think
that we could take a hard look at our transit security, and make it maybe more meaningful and
efficient. And the idea of this working group, I certainly support. But I do not believe that
completely eliminating our safety and security budget at this time, without a detailed analysis of
the consequences, I am not in support of this resolution. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair and Director Lewis. I agree with much of
what's been said so far. I would say that while I agree we should be looking at ways we can be
better in this arena of helping to ensure our passengers; safety and so forth, I'm worried that the
resolution leaps to a conclusion and prescribes an outcome that I would rather see developed first
before we identify the dollar amount and the actual measures to be taken. And so I'll join the others

in opposing this. But I did want to acknowledge the effort in terms of trying to address a current
circumstance, and that I don't want to downplay better at all.
And then to second note to that District L, much of the contact with the TSOs is through the
Commuter Rail. And their presence here is much appreciated, actually from that more geographic
standpoint. I did want to know what I'd been hearing from constituents, as well as from the
operators themselves. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Madam Chair-KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: -- Director Lewis. May I respond to some of these. It's hard to keep up with
each one of these, and wait to the end. And so I'm asking if I can respond to these as others have
been able to.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis-SHONTEL LEWIS: Would that be OK?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, it's not. I think that all of the Directors have the right to speak. You have
spoken first. And I think I'm going to go all the way around. And I understand that it's hard to keep
up. But I think that you understand that everybody here has an equal right to speak at these
meetings. And so-SHONTEL LEWIS: I was just asking for the same treatment of other Directors, who have had
Director-initiated action items. We've allowed them to respond to the concerns. And I just wanted
to respond to the concerns.
KATE WILLIAMS: You can respond to all of them after everybody has had a chance to speak.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, I appreciate that. I was just pointing out that that's different than we've
done in the past when these items have come forward from Directors. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Not in any meeting that I have run. So I don't know if somebody else has
done it differently, Director Lewis. But in the meeting that I'm running, all of the Directors will
have an equal chance to speak.
I gave you the opportunity to go first. I'm going to call on all of the other Directors, including
myself. And when we're all finished, I would be happy to have you speak again. Thank you.
Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I'd like to personally thank Director
Lewis for bringing this resolution forward. I think it's high time that we take a hard look at it. But
in saying that, I also agree with Director Buzek and Director Catlin. And so my hope is that this is

going to be the beginning of a working group that quite rightly reimagines how we do security at
RTD.
But yeah, I can't imagine-- what happened with Allied's employee was egregious and completely
unacceptable. And the individual, I think, who did most of the damage there is in jail. And I also
want to mention-- some Board members will remember this. I'm not sure when it was-- maybe
four years ago, one of our own officers was murdered at a point-blank range at Denver Union
Station. And so this kind of security is critical.
But we can, I think, do a better job of delivering a safe and secure environment for our employees
and our passengers. So again, thank you so much, Director Lewis. I really, really appreciate it.
And I'm hoping that that task force can get started sooner rather than later. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I also appreciate Director Lewis's efforts in bringing
this forth. And I think that this is an issue-- I understand and appreciate the concerns about armed
officers in our buses and trains and other facilities. But I think the union leaders, Mr. Longenbohn
and others, have brought forth a really valid concern, which is who's going to protect our drivers
and riders?
And in that regard, the union leaders have opposed this. The Allied Security contract, in my
opinion, needs to be examined. I believe that there is a plan to do that. We need to know what has
changed in terms of the hiring, training, and oversight, since the terrible incident with Mr. Stinnett.
We need to know if we can replace a second person on trains that the FAA requires with an
unarmed person. And I think that that is worth considering.
And finally, we need to know where the security budget has grown big, if we can cut it as we're
cutting all of our other budgets. But I just don't feel like I can support taking $27 million from our
security budget to hire social workers and others. We need a needs assessment. We need to
determine the course of action, and engage broader engagement and discussion.
At the same time, I'll say I have been talking with Director Lewis along the way. I have not been
as good about giving early feedback just been concerned with other things. I still am willing to
meet with Director Lewis.
And I think there are others who offered to work on a committee and really hammer this out to
where it is ready to be considered, whether as a pilot project or a small committee or something.
I'm still willing to help. Thanks. I will be a no vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I also wanted to thank Director Lewis for bringing up these
important issues of safety and equity and fairness, and how people are treated. They're very
important, and she's been persistent in bringing up these issues.

But I also will be a no vote on this resolution, because it seems, unfortunately, to me to be
backwards. We have to figure out exactly what the problem is before we can determine what our
solutions are. And this resolution seems to determine the solutions first, and then try to figure out
the extent of the problem. And I think it's backwards. So I do think it would be incredibly useful
to form a committee or a task force and look at our security and look at how effective it is, and if
there have been a lot of complaints, etc. And see how things could be improved, including perhaps
cutting a bunch in this time of economic turmoil, but also a different mix of who provides security
and what services are provided.
But we don't know any of that yet. We're just at the beginning of this. So anyway, I also wanted to
thank staff for writing us and giving us their opinions, because I really appreciate hearing from
them about their experiences and their thoughts. So once again thank you, Director Lewis. But I
will be a no vote on this resolution. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Yes, I look at this resolution as a part A and a part B. Part A is
to eliminate Allied Security, eliminate the IGA for three police departments. That's part A. Part B
is to divert those dollars to mental health, outreach, and counseling.
And so with part A, which is the scope of work, I would be OK revising the scope of work, simply
number one because of our budget situation and the bus service reductions that we presently have,
and additional ones that may be coming. The part where I have a real problem with the resolution
is the part B. And I do not know where in the RTD Act we were to be mental health counselors. I
almost look at it as I'm the government and I'm here to help you, whichever hat they may be
wearing raises concern for me.
But that is outside of our scope regardless. It's what could be called mission creep. But if there
were any savings from part A, the scope of work being reduced, then I would certainly be looking
to other options as to where that money should go.
Less service reductions, pay off our debt more quickly-- those would be where I would want to
see the dollars go. Thank you. I'm done.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. It was just a couple of weeks ago, earlier this summer,
several directors-- Director Whitmore, Director Lewis, Chair Rivera-Malpiede and I, and some
others had participated in examining and updating the code of conduct. And in those meetings,
there was a lot of discussion around the role of RTD's security. And if this had been-- if this
resolution had been limited to exploring and improving the role of security interactions, I would
have likely supported that.
However, I can't for a number of reasons. For one, as Director Menten just said, it's not within
RTD's authority to provide the mentioned services. With the current state of [AUDIO OUT] aside

that I've received over the years, operators and riders and stakeholders is a desire for certainly no
less security at platforms and parking garages and [AUDIO OUT].
And then, speaking of those stakeholders, I would have to think that the newly-formed
Accountability Committee would want to evaluate our security in light of the discussion we're
having now. And then also, turn on the news or however you get your news, there's been an
acceleration in property and violent crime in the metro area. And in the absence of a visible security
presence, that deterrent, I think it would only invite additional unwanted [AUDIO OUT]. I'm a no.
Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate all of the comments of the
directors before me. And I appreciate the recommendation of the Chair that has been made, and I
think will be voiced again during this meeting, regarding establishing a task force to examine and
explore and implement something that would be appropriate. And I have no further comment at
this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So I signed on to this to get it on the agenda for this discussion. I felt
it is an important issue that needed to be discussed. And by the number of comments we've had, I
think that proved true. I've received a lot of comments in favor of this resolution as-is.
I've received a lot of comments from people who supported it in principle, but aren't comfortable
with the language, or they're not clear on what the action plan is on how to achieve the goal, or
they're not clear of the goal. And I've also received comments that are opposed to it straight out
with no changes needed or asked for. I'm probably in the middle. I definitely recognize the need.
I do get to use Union Station back when I went to an office. I did use Union Station often in the
evening or early morning. I was there a few weeks ago, 5:30 in the morning. And so I'm familiar
with the environment that's there.
I've spoken with some of the officers, the TSOs who work there. And some of the people who stay
there feel more comfortable around our security forces than others. Some don't. Some have
nowhere else to be. But there's a mix of opinions in that population of the people who are there.
So I guess the gist of it is, there's a whole lot of discussion that I think still needs to be had, and a
whole lot of opinions that still need to be heard. So I don't want this resolution to go away, though.
I think it's still an important topic.
It's going to be an important topic in the future. It's always going to be around us. And I think that
this discussion is helping us find some way to better deal with this situation than we have in the
past. I believe a lot of the TSOs are overworked, overstressed, just like the discussions we had
about our bus operators a while ago-- how they were working so many hours, and they had to deal
with so many different scenarios.

I think this is my perspective-- the conversations I've had, I've always said that we need to look
out for them also and take some of the load off their shoulders, and putting some folks who are
trained in those mental health services to provide those services can help do that. But I had a very
long conversation with someone yesterday, one of my constituents in my district-- District D, the
one I get to represent, who said that she doesn't think that there are enough adequately trained
professionals out there to fill that void if January 1 rolls around and we no longer have a contract
with Allied.
So because of all these, I can't vote for yes. I can't vote yes yet. But I don't want it to go away. I
don't want this conversation to be put on hold.
After everybody's spoken, there is a motion I will make, unless somebody has another motion, to
keep this conversation alive. It's not to pass this. But like I said, we've had a lot of comment just
from the board tonight. So I think there's probably more to be had. I know there's also talk about a
working group to look at these problems.
So this has to stay alive, probably in a different forum. In my opinion, definitely in a different
forum. But it's a very important issue. So with that, I will end. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I certainly appreciate the wonderful comments
and input from my colleagues, and the energy put forth on this matter from Director Lewis. And I
also appreciate Director Williams and Walker for bringing this forward. As Director Walker says
the conversation needs to continue. And I'm fine with that.
To Director Mihalik's comments regarding task force and other committees, I'm willing and
hopefully able to participate where needed to advance the conversation in the future, but feel to
Director Lubow's comments that we're a little bit out of order, and this is a bit broad-brushed and
a bit sudden for my tolerance, and the tolerance of the constituents that I've been hearing from the
last couple of days in my district in Adams County a great deal of concern about the expedited
manner in which this could happen. And certainly, I want to respect the input that we all received
from our operators and their concerns. And their safety is number one. Especially now in these
trying times,
I think it's important that we listen to our frontline folks very diligently. So with that, I will be a
no vote. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have some comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I want to commend
Director Lewis for her compassion, and also for her position of commitment, because I think that
she truly exemplifies our community that is really, really struggling. I have to say that, in working
with Director Lewis-- and it has been just a pleasure in terms of her commitment to community.

I would like to remind the board and the public that this staff and this Board of Directors has been
working quite diligently in terms of serving our most vulnerable communities, starting with last
week, we got a presentation from Mr. Sirois that talked about his work and the work of the staff
with a task force on communities that work with our most vulnerable populations. And this work
had started several years ago, in terms of talking about how do we serve our communities that are
really struggling. And they have developed an entire plan of action, which is moving forward,
which is really quite exciting in terms of developing strategies to provide services and resources
available.
Not that we as a transit agency can do more than provide transportation, but that we work together
collaboratively to make sure that we're making services available to our community that is really
struggling. And then I will recall the board, in April, that there was a strong sentiment about our
code of conduct. And we developed an ad hoc committee, a blue panel ribbon, that included five
Board members, and really about five community members that work in our most vulnerable
populations, and our staff, to sit down and actually take apart our code of conduct, and make sure
that we are, in fact, being sensitive, people-first oriented. And that we're making sure that it makes
sense to everybody.
And then thirdly, I would just say to you, in working with Director Lewis, I have learned so much
about her passion. And one of the things that I came up with in working with her, and working
with the staff, was what they have in place currently to support really working forward in terms of
serving everybody. And so I would just say to you that one of the things that has happened with
them is that they have applied for a homeless outreach coordinator, based on the outreach
committee that they've put together. And we should be hearing on that momentarily.
We do have a mental health worker that works Monday through Thursday. But they have applied
for three additional positions, which would supply mental health workers to work with frontline
workers seven days a week, 365 days a year, which I think is really very amazing. And then really
taking a deep-dive look into the training module that happens with our security officers and our
frontline employees about implicit bias and cultural diversity and inclusion, and making sure that
we understand that this is a very, very large transit agency-- the 16th largest agency in the country
we serve about 2,300 square miles. And we need to make sure that we are being diverse in how
we move forward in terms of serving our community.
And then lastly, really taking a deep-dive look in a year to see if what we're doing makes sense for
a large transit agency. We need to have a baseline. We need to determine if this is the right program
for the Regional Transportation District, or if we need to move forward with different
methodologies.
I absolutely believe that we should have a community resource ad hoc committee that can sit down
with us, and advise us on every level, for transparency and inclusion to make sure that we're not
missing anything. Madam Chair, I would really look forward to working on that with Director
Lewis. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. As the Chair of this committee, I'm going
to now exercise my prerogative to speak for a couple minutes. And then, Director Lewis, we will
come back to you. You asked for, as we say, another bite of the apple.
I think that I agree with Director Walker that I signed on to this petition, this resolution, because I
wanted it presented in public at this meeting. I have a number of questions for the staff that I don't
want them to answer at this moment. But that I am expecting that they will bring back to us, such
as why is Allied our security company?
How long have we employed them? What's their performance record? Would we be better served
by a different security company? Are we willing to consider having no security? What do our
fellow agencies, such as city council-- what do they use for security services?
How about the State House of Representatives? Are there successes and issues with their security
services? Is anybody using mental health services?
I've been told by our union that if we fire our security company, a number of our drivers will leave.
And that will affect all of our services, many of my constituents, and all of your constituents. So I
believe that this is an innovative concept. But I think we need further look at it.
What would be involved if we fired Allied? What would the cost be? I've heard that come up
several times tonight.
How long would that take? Who would replace them? Does the replacement agency have sufficient
personnel, sufficient experience?
How many Allied employees do we have, as a matter of fact? What kind of schedules do they
work? Have we looked at a variety of alternative solutions? I did send a presentation that was sent
to me on what issues are being examined at other transit agencies around the country. I'd like to
see some of that go into our work.
But the bottom line that I want to make is that we're not a human service agency. We are a
transportation agency. We move people. And in many ways, we do that well.
The Office of Behavioral Health doesn't have buses or trains, and they don't offer transportation
services. They offer mental health services. RTD does not provide food. The Food Bank of the
Rockies does that, and they don't provide transportation. RTD doesn't provide housing.
The Colorado Coalition for the Homeless does not provide transportation-- although RTP has
partnered with many of those agencies to help transport many of the unhoused recently. And at the
height of the pandemic, to be offered free transportation to all riders. The Office of Behavioral
Health, the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless, the Food Bank of the Rockies, and others offer
vouchers for their clients to use RTD.
I'm 100% in support of RTD giving our riders discounted access, mental health services, food
pantries, housing, et cetera, which we do now by partnering with those agencies to the LIVE

program. And I'd be happy to help expand those partnerships. I have many, many more words to
say to this.
But in the bottom line, I think that RTD has come a very long way toward helping our riders. We
offer special services for the disabled. We offer student discounts. We offer a discounted price to
older adults. We have a special program for persons of lower income. We partner with alternative
transportation. We partner with our neighborhoods, NECO Passes, and employers and hospitals.
We're giving out masks. We're putting up shields for our drivers. We work with state and local
officials. We're audited regularly by the state and the Federal Transportation Administration.
But RTD's job, in the bottom line, is to provide transportation. I think that we are a part of the
social determinants of health. If you don't have transportation, you can't get to the food bank to get
food. If you don't have transportation, you can't get to mental health services or other social
services. So I think that we are important in many, many ways for the community.
And I think that we would all like to continue to work toward that. I think that Director Lewis has
always brought to the RTD Board table an innovative and fresh outlook on what our interaction is
with our community. But at the bottom line, I think that we are a transit agency. So that's all I have
to say. And I have promised the floor back to Director Lewis, and would be honored to do that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. I'm doing my best to keep up with
all of the comments and concerns that were raised. And I have to say that we approached this
conversation in end of June.
And one of the things that are asked pretty regularly of board members is that we bring our
questions and concerns prior to the board meeting. And so I really would appreciate it, folks-- I
would have appreciated my Board colleagues to provide me with the input that they had to approve
this resolution-- to better this resolution. And I think in the past, we've had discussions, and folks
have put forward amendments for which that they can live by. And that has not happened.
And so I'm not really sure where to go, as I don't have anything substantial that I could use to make
a tweak or a change that would be beneficial or accepting of board members. I'll do my best to try
and capture everything that my colleagues have said, and I'm going to miss something. And so if
I do, I'm happy to have a conversation with you at a later date.
Around the transition-- so Director Buzek, you asked specifically about defunding the police. And
nowhere throughout the resolution is there actually that verbiage or that term. In fact, I probably
should have begun with this is not an effort to defund the police, but really an opportunity to put
the decision-making in the hands of the folks who are on the receiving end of those decisions.
To your point-- and I really, really appreciate you bringing this up. To your point about the
ambiguity, you were absolutely right. It is ambiguous, and it's ambiguous intentionally, because
one, I wanted to co-create that.

But I also would like to put communities in the driver's seat. You talked about my commitment to
our workers, and I'm so glad that you recognize that, as I have been the only Director has been
calling for worker protection. But one of the things that I did hear quite a bit from our operators as
it relates to safety, which was something I was thinking about, as I was drafting, is that oftentimes,
our operators will call security because they have a concern that their well-being is in danger, or
they're not feeling safe.
And the transit security officers typically arrive after things have already dispelled. And they're
usually the ones who are taking the report. And so the measures aren't necessarily preventative.
And so while our officers and operators are saying, yes, we need more security, maybe the question
is, do we need more security, or do we need to rethink that? That's essentially what I was putting
forward is an opportunity for us to rethink what security and safety could look like for the myriad
of constituencies for which we serve. And that was my intention.
I think, Director Guissinger, you talked about-- you may have touched on the cost, but you also
talked about the ambassadors. I think I shared earlier with you not just today, but previously, that
the second person on our rail could actually be replaced. It was just a matter of process in getting
to the end of that. And also, this is actually more cost-efficient for us.
And so many of you know that the numbers that we pay is $76 an hour to [INAUDIBLE]. Our
transit officers in-house are $47 an hour. And so it's actually less expensive for us to hire and train
and build out our own transit security office department, if that was something that we were
interested in-- if we were truly committed to ensuring that we have this historic understanding and
representation of safety. That train conductors, to your point,
Director Guissinger-- we had the conversation with Mike Meader and our safety folks, I learned
that right now, armed security is $34.51 per hour. And if we were to have those be train conductors,
it would be $25 to $27 per hour. And that's with fringe benefits. Again, there is some cost savings
in that, and an opportunity for us to reimagine what safety and security means.
I think, Director Lubow, you talked about-- it felt like-- and if I get this wrong, I'm sorry. That my
not my intention to mince your words. Again, I was really trying to keep up with the discussion-that this seemed like we were putting the solutions first.
And really, I wanted to clarify that my intent was to identify the buckets, the pot of money, that
we would be able to make-- if folks were to make recommendations from this committee that is
within the resolution, that there would be funding to be able to do so. And so oftentimes, we bring
communities to the table and we ask communities to make recommendations. And then we find
out at the tail end that we don't have the money to do it. And so my intent was to actually reverse
that and to identify the money, and then bring community to the table to say, if you could bring us
community-centered approaches and solutions, we do have the budget that we've put aside to be
able to tap into.

I also expected that there would be a transition period. And so someone said-- I think maybe you,
Director Buzek, you talked about the crisis intervention. You talked about the concern around
defunding the police. I assumed that there was-- I made two assumptions.
One that folks would potentially have transit security officers and keep them in place. That might
be a desire that folks want. But also that this is not going to happen overnight, and so intentionally
created some time for folks to be able to have that transition period. And so while that might have
been confusing, I hope that provides some more clarity for each one of you. Those were the
comments that I was able to capture.
I would say, there is some agreement that I have with you, Director Menten, around the production
of paying off debt to ensure that maybe we have more service, even to pay our operators hazard
pay. Like, I do agree with you that there are some alternatives to putting mental health providers
in place. I do want to say that it was a cross-section of individuals that I had hoped to-- that I hope
that the committee would be able to identify.
And so what I mean by that identifies that, when they came with the recommendations, those
recommendations could also include transit ambassadors, social workers, behavioral health
providers, substance abuse counselors, housing coordinators, et cetera, et cetera. I didn't want to
be prescriptive. In fact, I wanted the taxes to come from community, because I thought that's where
the benefit lies.
And many of you all have said that you appreciate my support for community. And I really do
believe that those closest to the pain should be closest to decision-making. And really, that was the
intent and the principle that I was really operating from as I was thinking about this resolution, and
as I had sent it to each one of you.
I will just say wholeheartedly that, because we didn't have these conversations offline or
beforehand-- not offline, I didn't have the opportunity to respond to them. But I also didn't have
the opportunity to include those within the resolution. And so that's unfortunate.
I do hope that in the future, as I'm not comfortable with the status quo, that we continue-- that we
begin to collaborate to address these issues. Because what I haven't heard today from any of the
Directors is an obligation to provide safety for our services in our facilities. And essentially, that's
what this whole thing is about. And I haven't heard any of us acknowledge that the way that things
are currently, and the multiple reports that we hear from our different constituencies and how we
are handling our systems either that be at Union Station or on our buses, where security is not, and
where we hear a lot from operators that they would love to have security there, that we haven't
made the commitment to addressing what this can look like.
And again, I'll bring this back to, typically, we have a process in which folks are not comfortable
with a motion. And they will submit amendments. That did not happen in this case. And so I hope
that we see the hypocrisy and the standards for which you all hold me to, and to the standards that
you don't hold yourselves to, as we can tell you to navigate what it means to be board colleagues.
Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Direction Lewis. Again, as Chair, I have a couple comments. The
resolution that was presented to the Board members, which I read, and I would assume everybody
else read, states specifically to terminate Allied and reallocate those funds. It states specifically to
terminate the IGA and MOU with the three various police departments and reallocate those funds.
And I think that the problem is the wording in this resolution does not say that those are items for
discussion. That's what the resolution is asking for. And so what I hear is that most of the other
Directors-- all of whom are always concerned about operator safety, and all of whom work very
hard in their roles, dedicate a lot of time and a lot of effort.
What I am hearing now is that they can't support this the way it was presented. Not that the concepts
aren't valid, or that you, Director Lewis, as a human being, are not valid. But that the way that this
was presented to the board is not acceptable.
That's what I hear. So based on that, I'm going to call for a vote now. And this time, I will go in
alphabetical order. Director Broom, your vote, sir.
BOB BROOM: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek, your vote
VINCE BUZEK: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.
JEFF WALKER: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: I myself am a no vote. That means the resolution does not pass out of this
committee. We have for the record 14 noes-- I'm not going to read them all, and one yes. The one
yes is Director Lewis.
OK, and now this committee is going to move forward. We have no actual updates today. We have
a number of information items. The information items were presented in the packet and published.
If there is any question or comment, we would appreciate it if you would contact the staff about
those items. Their contact information was provided as part of those informational items. And I'm
going to move on. Are there any other matters? Hearing none, our next meeting date for the
committee will be September 15 at the same virtual location. And the Operations and Customer
Service Committee will adjourn, if I can hear a motion to do so.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I heard a number of people. I'll take any of them. How about a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second. Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. And we will have a five-minute comfort break before we move
to the next meeting. And we'll see you all back here at-- it is 6:45. We'll see you back here at 6:50.

