Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October
8, 2009
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

October 8, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, October 8, 2009 at 5:34 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Christopher, Vice – Chair Bagley, Director Cohen, Director Daly,
Director James, Director Kemp, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, and
Director Tobiassen.
Directors Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Pulliam, Martinez and Tayer.

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Kevin Diviness, Carol Duecker, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Marla Lien, Karen Morales, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Stan Szabelak, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Larry Warner and
Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Pete Hankovszky, Chuck Culig, Wendy Wallach, Mary Keith Floyd,
Mac Callison, Bob Wilson, Anne Hayes, Sharon Torranova, Kathleen
Osher, Jessica Klebus

****
Call to Order
I.

Chair Christopher called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m. and stated that
a quorum was present.

Recommended Action:
Dedication of Right of Way (ROW) at Highlands Ranch park-n-Ride
Susan Altes, Manager Real Property, introduced this item to the board and indicated
that there is a slightly revised board report in front of them. The revision has to do
with the amount of acreage in the dedication. This action will dedicate a small amount
of RTD property to Douglas County – it is .42 acres. By dedicating this to Douglas
County, it will forever remove RTD’s maintenance obligation. It will be public dedicated
right-of-way and will be maintained by Douglas County. The approximate value is in the
$10-$15 per square foot range.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, October
8, 2009
Page 2 of 2

It is recommended by Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute
all documents necessary to participate in the replat of Lots 5A and 5B, Highlands
Ranch – Filing No. 141, First Amendment which will include the dedication of
approximately .42 acres of Regional Transportation District property to Douglas
County for public right of way.
Motion:

Director Bagley made a motion to
forward the Board action to the
October 20, 2009 Board Meeting.

Second:

Director James seconded the
Motion.

Vote On
Motion:

Motion passed unanimously

II.

Other Matters

III.

Next Meeting Date – November 3, 2009

IV.

Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned at 5:40
p.m.

