Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 10, 2012

Subject:

Corrected -Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
April 10, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair James; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, Malpiede,
Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Directors Anderson, Deadwyler and Williams

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, J. Skip Brown, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
James Cook, Martell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien,
Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara
McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross- Amato, Jannette
Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Greg
Smith, Mike Turner, Michael Washington, Phil Washington, Susan
Wood, Don Young

Others Present:

Laura Aldrete – PB, Dan Cohen – DU, Gary Forbes – First Transit, Stan
Gronek – ATU1001, Lee Johnson-First Transit Commerce City, Stu
‘Livensparger – First Transit, Chris Nevitt, Seth Patterson, Larry
Tenenholz – Veolia, Chris Wargetv – DU, Katrina Wert – CCD/WIN,
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair James called the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting to order at 7:08 p.m.

I.

Recommended Actions


Ticket Vending Machine Upgrade and Replacement and Related Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approves the upgrade of ticket vending machines (TVM) on the
Southeast Corridor and replacement of TVMs on the Southwest and Central
Corridors.- Terry Howerter gave a brief update and Don Young presented the
background of the old TVMs and abilities of the new TVMs.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 2 of 5

Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward this item to the full board at
the April 17, 2012 Board meeting.

Second:

Director
motion.

Discussion:

Chair Kemp asked if the new ticket
machines were Scheidt & Bachmann
and if they were compatible to
smart media. Terry Howerter stated
that yes they are Scheidt &
Bachmann and they are compatible.
Bruce Able dittos that the machines
are and will be compatible to smart
media. Director Bagley comments
that he is excited to hear about the
upgrades. Director Walker
questioned if we anticipate using
the same machines in Gold Line.
Terry Howerter stated yes
eventually. Director Tobiassen
questioned if there was any network
connections in the SW corridor.
Terry Howerter states that there is
some but very little.

Vote on
Motion:

Cohen

seconded

the

The Motion PASSED Unanimously.

 Adoption of 2013 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit committee that the Board
of Directors adopt the attached 2013 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.
Jannette Scarpino briefly went over the changes for 2013 from the 2012 adopted
goals. She discussed the goal changes proposed being Goal 1.4 – increase the
number of light rail accidents per month; goal 2.1 increase the prompt response to
facility complaints; Goal 3.1 lowered the Light Rail on-time service; Goal 6.2 –
increase ridership, this goal will be established by the financial plans inherent in the
adoption of the 2013 Annual Budget in November 2012 & is noted as a placeholder
until that point; and finally Goal 6.3 – increase Fare Revenue and Total Operating
Revenue.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 3 of 5

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion.

Second:

Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Tayer gave a
comment/suggestion that maybe
they could consider setting up a
standard that gives the board
members more flexibility of knowing
why we are getting certain amount
of complaints. It’s suggested that a
category or breakdown of
complaints be added to the report
we receive. Director McMullen
addressed a concern questioning if
the numbers are accurate as it
pertains to the vandalizing. Jannette
Scarpino answers yes, it is an
accurate count and every complaint
is responded to and every complaint
is counted as one no matter how
many times it’s called in. Director
Walker asked to clarify what is
meant by repetitive in the 2.1
section, does it mean that several
calls at the same location keep
coming in. Dave Genova states no
and explains it’s more the nature of
snow and ice for example; they will
get an increase in those calls over
and over again. Director Daly in
looking at maintenance performance
there is a footnote on number 5,
does that raise the level of
complaints. Jannette states that
yes, with fewer buses due to the
route cuts, the number of
complaints increase that is expected
to change as the budget is
revamped and the services are
restored. Director Tobiassen asked
for an explanation on the LTR on
time service. Austin Jenkins shared
that during the start up time of any
rail or bus service the complaints of
on time increase as the operators
are on what they call the learning

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 4 of 5

curve. Director O’Boyle asked if it
was just a temporary learning curve.
Austin Jenkins replied yes.
Vote on
Motion:

II.

The Motion PASSED Unanimously.

Updates
 Fourth Quarter 2011 Performance Report – Janette Scarpino gave a brief update
stating that RTD met 18 of the 23 performance measures in quarter 4 of
2011and that the first two bullets are both tied into the SBP Development
Process Presentation and will be addressed at the same time.
Director O’Boyle asked for the status of the Maintenance Manager position and
what is being done to improve the performance in that department. He asked if
there is a systemic problem at Veolia. Bruce Able states they are working with
Veolia to address the issues that have been at the footnote for a while now.
Bruce Able introduced Larry Tenenholz, the new General Manager of Veolia. We
are in the process of reviewing and hiring the new Maintenance Manager.
Director McMullen states that Veolia is doing a great job and has not had any
complaints in over 8 years even which the changes in management.
Chair Kemp echoes McMullen and states we tend to get the cream of the crop.
He looks forward to another stellar year this year and thank you for all the great
work that you do.
Director Tayer complimented the FAA team for the great breakdown and layout of
the presentation. He asked if the new contracts as it pertains to alternative
arrangements are going to be done this year or down the road and if the ADA
services will be affected. Will there be a new ADA model in place? Bruce Abel
stated that currently the ADA contracts will expire at the end of this year; we
have contracts with four service providers. The Board have been involved with
several vendors and as we are preparing an RFP we are reaching for a closure so
that there will not be any services affected. He asked that if the team can give
the Board in a reasonably amount of time so that they have time the opportunity
to review and be able to follow up and make sure we won’t miss anything.
Director Tobiassen addressed the concern about the prices of natural gas. Has
anyone done an analysis of which vehicle to purchases and if the fuel was one
thing that was considered. Bruce Able stated that we have been involved
internally putting estimates in comparison as to what would be for CMG versus
Diesel.
Director Malpiede asked in regards to the fuel prices, what is the timeline. Terry
states that it is something that is closely followed on a daily basis as oil increases

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 5 of 5

or decreases so just depending on where it stands when the decision is made is
when we will have a final decision on the fuel.
Chair Kemp stated that in the past staff has come to the Board and asked for us
to give them a range that if the percentage happen to drop into , that they can
have the go-ahead to proceed and not have to come back to the Board for
approval. Has that perimeter been looked at yet so that we can say ok yes if it
falls between this or that don’t come to us, go ahead and lock? General Manager
stated that typically based on forecast and all that we recommend is a range in
about June which has gone to the Executive Committee of the Board. General
Manager Washington explained they are regularly looking at the signs and it
usually happens so quickly. Chair Kemp states that we just want to make sure
they have the ok to go.
Director McMullen asked if RTD has considered as Salt Lake has adjusting their
fare through the fuel surcharge. General Manager stated yes but indicated this is
not a cost model he would recommend.


February 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report – Doug MacLeod gave a brief
overview of that report noting the changes on page 42 where they added a
FasTracks Ops column, changes to page 43 where they added net positions to
the last 3 lines, page 44 where they added foot notes and lastly page 47 where
they also added a column for FasTracks.
Chairperson James stated that we have been very conservative in our forecasts
and thanks the staff.

III.

Other Matters
None

IV.
V.

Next Meeting Date – May 15, 2012
Adjourn to Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting
The meeting adjourned at 8:04 p.m.

