2020-07-30
GMES-GMOC, pt. 1
PEGGY CATLIN: --at what stage an absence must be approved by the full Board. So we wanted
to talk [AUDIO OUT] committee today. And Melanie's recommendations were, number 1, add
this item to today's agenda, which I did, for discussion in open session. This clarification of the
process is to allow Directors to listen in on the committee's interviews, and to participate in the
deliberation and vote [AUDIO OUT] selection on 8/7 regarding the narrowing of the first round
of candidates.
Number two in the discussion, we need to make clear that this is just a clarification of the selection
process only, and that the committee charter provisions remain in effect. So all other provisions in
the committee charter are in effect. And in order to ensure fair, uniform, and consistent evaluation
of all candidates, Melanie recommends that we require Directors to listen in on all six interviews
in order to participate in the selection on August 7.
And then we are asking Gregg Moser our consultant, to make sure that the candidates understand
the process. That it's not just going to be the seven committee members that are hearing the
interviews, but that in fact, any Director can listen in. And if they listen in on all six, will have an
opportunity to participate in the selection process.
So with that, I'd like to open it up to any questions. For those of you on the phone don't, but do
you all have the raise your hand icon, other than Director Guissinger?
Does anyone want to comment on this?
SHELLEY COOK: I do have a clarifying question, Madam Chair. It's Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So as I recall, we had a provision in the interim where, if somebody couldn't
attend all those meetings, they could watch the tape. And so I'm wondering if that will be the case
now. If somebody who is on the Board at large wants to go and take the time to listen to the tapes,
since that experience would be roughly equivalent to listening in live, could they then participate
in the vote on the finalist?
PEGGY CATLIN: We had not made that provision in this particular clarification. It was that if
you could-- and partly because the time between the last interview and when the Board Office gets
those uploaded it is very short. Barbara McManus, do you want to elaborate on that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. As Director Catlin says, the turnaround time is very tight. And the
provision we made last time is that folks would have to come into the office to listen to that, so
that it was not out in the public at all. So we have no way this time around of getting those
recordings to whoever would need to listen to them in a timely fashion in a safe method

PEGGY CATLIN: In a secure method. OK, thank you, Ms. McManus.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Could they come into the office and see them? Like, if they missed the first
day, come in that afternoon or something? Are they not ready that quickly?
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know. John, can you speak to that?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, I've done Zoom recordings before, and they're instantly
available, if we're doing Zoom I don't know.
JOHN MCKAY: That shouldn't be a problem. This is John.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, I think the problem with making those available electronically
is there is an issue with the security.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, but on Lynn Guissinger's Director Guissinger's basis, if somebody could
come into the office and listen, that was the thought.
PEGGY CATLIN: We would have to-- I mean, that's a decision by this body. But if the decision
is yes, then we'll have to staff the Board office and make those available. John, what were you
saying? You had an answer there I think.
JOHN MCKAY: So if-- I haven't tested this yet. So I'm just spit-balling here. But I believe that I'd
be able to upload that to OneDrive, and then share it with one person via email. And they wouldn't
be able to forward that video or the link to that video to anybody else. You'd have to be in that
account to see it.
So I think it should be pretty secure. Like I said, I haven't tested that yet with a video at least. I
don't know how that works. But I think that sounds like a viable answer. I can run that by IT.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think what this process is intended to do is to make it fair for all of the
candidates, and that we would have every-- we would have the same people reviewing their
interviews for each of the candidates. Director Tisdale, your hand is up.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, it is. Thank you very much. Two things. First of all, to make sure I
understand it, nine committee members may attend the interviews. And if you attend all of the
interviews, you may participate in the discussion for the selection of finalists.
If you cannot attend all of them, you can at least attend what you can. You just can't participate in
the discussion-- obviously it's not a vote-- by the non-committee members. But you cannot
participate in the discussion unless you've attended all. First, is that an accurate assessment of what
you've stated?

PEGGY CATLIN: One minor piece. We are suggesting that if you participate, or if you're a noncommittee member and you attend via Zoom each of the six interviews, then you participate in the
follow-up meeting on August 7, both in the discussion and in the-- it's not a vote-- but in the
selection process, and the winnowing down of candidates to three. If you cannot attend all six, then
you can still listen in on the 7th. But you cannot participate in selection.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, the second question is, Gregg has found some way to make sure that we
could not share, we couldn't copy, we couldn't print out, we couldn't do anything with these
resumes. Because I tried to hack into the system myself, just to see if you could, and I was
unsuccessful. And I've been rather successful with hacking into a lot of things in the past.
So it seems to me that we would undoubtedly have an opportunity to do the same kind of thing
with the video that we have for each of these interviews. That process should carry over and
shouldn't require a lot of time on John's part when talking to IT. Apparently, Gregg has already
mastered that in some fashion.
PEGGY CATLIN: John, you want to respond to that?
JOHN MCKAY: I'd have to ask Gregg about this. But I know that there is a cost associated with
using HoGoDoc and I don't know if there's a size limit. The videos that we recorded are pretty
significant in size if they're coming from teams. So the OneDrive route, if that's acceptable to the
committee, would be there wouldn't be a cost associated with it, because it's included within our
Microsoft subscription.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, go ahead.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I'm looking at HoGoDoc right now. And it only allows you to upload
PDF, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint documents. So videos are not a format that they provide the
secure [AUDIO OUT] for.
So I don't know. I have not done a video. And to John's point the size of the file may be a challenge.
But I'm not familiar with a system that can lock a video like what we're talking about. I could
certainly look into it if we want look into that. But I don't have one off the top of my head at the
moment.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have a couple of thoughts. And Director Tisdale, your hand is still up. I don't
know if you wanted to follow up on that at all? [AUDIO OUT] hand is still raised.
DOUGLAS TISDALE: I'm sorry. I think I just lowered it, and I apologize. And I do want to
apologize too. You may have seen me taking a sip from a glass of champagne here. I just came
from a virtual reception for the farewell of the Canadian Consul General. So we were drinking
champagne. I'm just finishing this up, that's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You need to share, Doug.

PEGGY CATLIN: Good for you. I'm about to grab my iced tea.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm drinking a water.
JOHN MCKAY: Likely story.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede, what did you say?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I said, I'm drinking water.
SHELLEY COOK: There you go.
JUDY LUBOW: That's funny.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have two thoughts. These are Zoom meetings. And one of the reasons-- Zoom
interviews. One of the reasons we've set it up that way was because there could be some visual
interaction among Board members and the candidates, so you can gauge body language and
respond. And my thought is if somebody comes in after the fact and views the tape, the candidate
doesn't get the benefit of that Board member participating. Just a thought there.
And if you're on the Zoom meeting, and participating in the interview, that's proof that you
participated in the interview. If you ask for a document, and then choose not to review it, but then
want to participate in the vote-- not that I don't trust all of you. But there could be some question
as to whether or not a person who was reviewing the tapes on their own in fact did so.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Is somebody talking? Director Guissinger, you raised your hand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I guess we're giving people such short notice on the empowering the
vote side, and figure if maybe-- I'm not sure we can totally decide it today. But if John has a system
that's pretty secure, there may be people who can watch five of the six. And it is during work hours.
So I guess my vote would be to-- if there's a system where people can watch them later in the day
or something, I would vote that way.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. The one thing that could get challenged
in-- maybe it's just me being me, so maybe Melanie can weigh in on this. There is no way, utilizing
the OneDrive method, for us to tell if anybody has gone in and actually watched the whole thing.
So I don't know if that changes things. I don't know if we could get challenged on that. I just-- that,
to me, puts a little bit of a crimp in the process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie, would you like to respond to that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Sure, and I think with everything, it's always important to try to be as
uniform and consistent as we possibly can. I mean, I suppose Barbara, to your point, it's also

possible that people could participate in the interview process, but then turn their camera off and
walk away from their desk, and not watch. So at a certain point, we have to just rely on the fact
that you're all professionals and somewhat of the honor system, if you will. I am a little concerned- I'm not sure Dropbox is actually a secure method. But I do think that's something we should just
follow up with our IT team about. John, maybe it's an FTP site that can be set up.
JOHN MCKAY: OneDrive rather than [AUDIO OUT]. Yeah, it would be OneDrive, because we
don't utilize FTP protocol at RTD.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lubow, you had your hand up. Do you still wish to speak?
JUDY LUBOW: Can you hear me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Good. What about if the people that-- one, there may not be anyone who
even wants to use this. But if there is, what if they sign some kind of statement saying I watched
these, so that we were protected?
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie, would you like to respond to that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think that's an option, sure, sure.
Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: Just a minute. Natalie, I'll get to you in just a second. To Barbara's point, that
was what I was concerned about.
Not so much that I wouldn't trust all 15 Board members to participate honestly, and will do what
they said they did. But it could be challenged by somebody outside. I think that was my only
concern. Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would support the OneDrive or some other method as Director Guissinger
labeled it empowered [AUDIO OUT]. And especially, perhaps I want to re-watch an interview. I
assume I'll be able to attend all of them [AUDIO OUT] would be my number one goal in life.
But maybe I'll want to re-watch one. So I completely support this. And yes, I could turn off my-I don't need mute. We'll use my-- and I have a camera on my desktop. I could be in the bathroom
painting my toenails during part of the interview.
That's my thoughts on it. I'm not going to be painting my toenails, just for the record. But there
you go.
PEGGY CATLIN: Something that I can't imagine.

If it is feasible, and if we can make it secure, and if that is something that a handful of Directors
would find useful, then, I mean, I'm willing to go with the group. I just was worried about
consistency and fairness to the candidates. And it would be my hope that as many Directors as
possible can participate in as many interviews as possible, instead of the plan B. But I guess making
it available would probably be the most inclusive way to do it.
Are there thoughts? I think I'm going to go through the list [AUDIO OUT]. Director Buzek, your
thoughts?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm going to be at all the interviews and the thing on Friday. So I suppose to the
extent that we can ensure the most complete participation possible, that's always good. As long as
that system is safe and secure, and as long as a Director viewing a video or listening to an audio
has complete access to all of what's been said, I'd be OK with that. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, I agree.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Lewis? Are you on mute, Director Lewis? I'll circle back. I
already heard from Director [? Lubow. ?]
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm here. Someone keeps muting my mic. I'm here. And I keep responding to
you.
I unmuted, and someone mutes me. I was saying, I don't have a comment. I'm OK, as long as it's
secure.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you, Director Lewis. I don't know-- you kept going in and out. I'm
not on my keyboard, so I didn't mute you. And I can't mute you, anyway. Director Lubow and
Guissinger already made their opinions known. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree with everybody. The only thing
I would say is, I feel like Natalie. I might want to go back and review somebody's interview for
specific things.
But I think we need to do a hard stop on how long people have the ability to go back and look at
them. Otherwise, people will say, well I'll look at it tomorrow, because things get busy. So that's
my only additional comment. If we do do it, then I think we need to have a drop dead time that it
will end. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, the window of time to go in and review those tapes would be basically
mid-afternoon on Thursday to first thing Friday morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Thank you. So that's all we have available to us. OK,
Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I concur in the comments made by the
other Directors.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, it sounds like we have a consensus that we will use that OneDrive-whatever it is process that John outlined. And if I might just-- for the record, if we could revise the
process document that was sent out this afternoon to include that, that would be great. And for
those Directors who are not on the call, then they will be able to do that as well. In the meantime,
the buddy system is still in place.
So for those people who cannot participate for some reason, or choose not to review the tapes in
that very short window of time, then we still have the buddy system in place. And we can get input
[AUDIO OUT] on there with the candidates' resumes, and then represent them in the meeting
[AUDIO OUT]. So if somebody could-- John, if you could send another document out with this
final agreement on the process, that would be great.
NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I got this document here, and it was right before the meeting and opened
it up. I would not have even known it was really there since it came in so late. But it's regarding
the selection of finalist candidates. But it is marked as confidential privileged work product.
And my question is, this seems to be more about process. And I thought we were making sure that
our process was open to the public, but this document is marked confidential privileged work
product. So could we have our attorney please speak to that?
PEGGY CATLIN: There were three documents that were sent. Which one are you referring to?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So they all are marked that. And some of the discussion for two of the
items will be discussed in executive session. And the rest will be studied outside.
But the intention was that we didn't forward this document to other folks. That it's a working
document. And as you can see, one of the three documents we've all read be changed. So that was
our premise for that. And if Melanie has something to add. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So I think-- I'm also just looking at these documents for the first time. But
I think that the thinking was to keep it confidential right now as you're having this conversation.
But I agree with you, Director Menten, that the process really is a public process. And once these
adjustments are made, I would actually even recommend you considering putting it up on the
website, so it's really clear what the process is, because that really should be open to the public.
Not just the candidates, but to the public as well.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, and I do have one follow-up question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and within one of these-- and again, I'm having just really opened
these. At one point, it talks about the potential for secret votes when we are sharing our preferences
or top secret preference scraps with Mr. Moser. And I'm wondering how does CRS stand on this
as a secret ballot, if we want to call it that, or secret preference.
It gives multiple options. It says you can just say it in the public, in the forum-- in our private
forum, or share it confidentially with Mr. Moser. And I'm just wondering, does that comply with
the CRS?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. The document I reviewed-- and I
apologize if it says something different, didn't have anything to do with secret. So I'm going to
give a little bit of background.
For the last time, when we went for the Interim General Manager, we made a decision. And it
wasn't a final decision and it wasn't a vote. It was a head nod to consensus while we were in
executive session.
Then what we would like to happen is, based on that information in executive session, that Gregg
make a call to all of the candidates articulating the finalists, and letting the other folks know that
they weren't finalists. Once that was done, we are still in executive session. Gregg lets us know
that that is done.
We come out and we do a vote-- come out of the executive session into this special Board meeting.
Do the vote. And end then shortly thereafter, the press release goes out.
It was brought to our attention that a news media was notified prior to Mr. Ballard getting the call
the last time around. So we're trying to time this in a way that we're making the final decision in a
public forum, and that Gregg has had the opportunity to call the candidates. Make sure that they
are moving forward, and letting them know that they are moving forward. And then-NATALIE MENTEN: Barbara, I'm going to interrupt, just because I want make sure we're on the
same literal page here. This is the same document that I am hoping we will publish publicly after,
I guess, we make some amendments to it. So that's why I'm discussing this, in that it is the 10-page
document, right now titled confidential privileged work product. Selection of final panelists,
participation in the process.
And then under step two, it says, after discussing the six candidates, each Board member that have
attended all six interviews will provide their top three, and then parentheses, either openly to the
whole group or confidentially in a phone, email, text message to Mr. Moser. And I'm just speaking
to our whole committee right now as to should we be just openly providing those top three? What

would be the advantage in confidentially providing Mr. Moser, versus having that at least within
our executive session and the committee knowing how each of us rated our preferences?
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten, this is Peggy Catlin. And Gregg might want to chime in on
this. When we had a discussion about this earlier, there was just a confidentiality piece. I got
confused when you said secret.
But the idea there was that we could have an open discussion about all six candidates candidly
based on the interviews. And then he said that, in a phone or email or text message, he would use
that information of each of the participants' top three to compile a spreadsheet and do a tally. And
it was just a matter of managing the flow of information so he captured it correctly.
The other thing that was brought out is that, if we go around the room and people say candidate
one, two, four, or something like that, or two, three, six, then is that going to somehow influence
another person's preference? Is that correct, Gregg? Unmute your-- you're on mute.
GREGG MOSER: That's correct. Yes, that is correct. The goal was to try to allow everyone to
have input and be able to have a discussion in executive session, and to see which candidates rose
to the top from the interviews. And to be able to go back and forth, just like we did when we
selected the candidates, to ultimately determine which candidates will be moved forward as
finalists.
And exactly like Director Catlin said, there was two options. We could just go around the video,
and each Director could speak up as to what their preferences were. But I offered the option of
reaching out to me individually, because I wasn't sure if certain Directors felt comfortable sharing- if you were asked to share yours first, would you feel comfortable doing so, knowing that all of
your colleagues would hear your choices versus hearing theirs first? So I was offering that as an
option.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara McManus has a comment-- or Director Menten, did you have a followup to that?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I was really seeking committee feedback on your thoughts on that,
because I suspect all of us got this shortly before this meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right, and we apologize for that. We had our discussions about that early
afternoon. So the turnaround was short. Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Gregg chimed in on exactly what I was going to say, giving an
explanation on why we looked at the two different ways of moving forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm just going to do a quick-- I am neutral on this. I'm going to do a quick gauge
of the rest of the Board. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Can you hear me?

PEGGY CATLIN: Now I can.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, good. OK, as long as we have a chance to discuss the candidates among
ourselves, yeah, I'm mainly neutral on this as well. I guess none of us is a wallflower I'd say. But
if that's an option for some folks, maybe that will be a good thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It looks like the Counselor's hand was up. And I wanted to know if you had
an opinion, Melanie, before chiming in? Because it looked like your hand was raised. Was that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I'm sorry. I missed that. That was because-- well, you know why? Because
my bar is covering your little hand.
[LAUGHS]
MELANIE SNYDER: That's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis.
MELANIE SNYDER: So just to be clear, I think we're talking about two different issues right
now. And I just want to make sure that we're clear about what we're talking about. So the first issue
is this deliberative process and narrowing the candidates within executive session, and using that
top three process that Gregg was just describing. And I think that's appropriate under open
meetings law, because you're not deciding. That's just the process that you're using.
The second issue, though, is the public announcement of who the finalists are. And I understand
the thought process, or from what I understand is that the plan is to narrow down to the top finalists.
But then during executive session, Gregg was going to call those finalists, and just ensure that that
is something that they wanted to continue to move forward in the process without going into open
session and saying those names. Because there is the possibility that somebody might not want to
move forward, and we want to be able to preserve their privacy if they-- because at the finalist
stage, that's public, obviously.
So I think that process is OK. But just to be clear, you would be voting in open session about those
finalists. And there would be voice votes about it.
There wouldn't be any secret ballots or anything like that. It would be on-the-record votes and
deliberations. Is that right? I just want to make sure that those are two separate pieces to this.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Melanie. Does that answer your-- Director Lewis, did you want to
add anything?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I don't think so. That was helpful. So I have to marinate on that just for a
second here.

PEGGY CATLIN: It's a good word. I hadn't used that.
Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm neutral also on those two options.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm still confused. I just looked at this document. I came in right when our
meeting started, and it's got a complex process of dropping people away. Are we being asked to
approve this document and this process today? Because I feel like I might need a little more time
to understand that this makes sense.
PEGGY CATLIN: We're trying to get consensus moving forward. I don't know when we could
have another opportunity to discuss it. So maybe I'll circle back, and-LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, maybe the first-- maybe Gregg can explain the first part really
quickly again. Melanie was talking about the two issues.
GREGG MOSER: Why don't I go through it from the beginning? So let's put aside whether we're
recording the videos. Let's just talk about the process once the six candidates have finished their
interviews.
So if all goes as planned, the six candidates are interviewing on the 5th and 6th. You will have the
opportunity to sleep on those interviews and your thoughts about those interviews until the
morning of the 7th. And we have a two-hour executive session on the morning of the 7th that we're
going to go into.
My hope is that, once we're in that executive session, we can have an open discussion of the
strengths and weaknesses of the candidates who interviewed-- those six candidates. Each Director
will have an opportunity to speak as to what they liked about those candidates, what they felt was
really strong, and what they saw as weaknesses. And we just go around, and every Director has an
opportunity.
Once every Director has had the opportunity to speak and provide their comments, we will obtain
input in which candidates each Director feels they feel most strongly about is their preference for
who the finalists are. My recommendation is we take an opportunity to provide me with feedback
of your top three choices. It's not a vote. It's just your top three choices, so we can get a sense of
where the Directors are with those six candidates, and which three they'd ideally like to see move
forward.
I will take that and tally those results. And my hope is that some candidate or candidates rise to
the top, and maybe some candidate or candidates fall to the bottom. And we can look at those six
candidates and say, OK, let's put the ones who got the most preference to one side.

And we'll say for the moment, we're going to put them in a bucket of they might move forward as
finalists. And if any candidates didn't get any preference, or very little preference, we'll talk and
make sure the group is comfortable putting them to the other side, saying for the moment, they're
going to be excluded from moving forward as finalists. And then we're going to look at what falls
in the middle. How-- [AUDIO OUT]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
My hope is we've got these two bucket. And there's one, two, three-- I don't know how many are
going to fall into those two buckets in this first initial go round. There's probably going to be
something in the middle, just like what we saw when we were actually looking at the resumes to
select. We had the exact same thing.
So with that group in the middle, if we're able to come to an agreement for just at the moment, we
have these two buckets of maybe move forward and maybe not move forward. We look at that
group in the middle and, depending on how many are there, we then go around again and let the
Directors speak for why they would want to see one of those things move forward, if we need one
or two candidates to move forward, to possibly be a finalist. And then again, rather than taking a
selection of three this time, each Director will have an opportunity from that limited group-- that
group that falls in the middle, to make a preference of their top one they'd want to see go forward
as a finalist.
I will tally those results. And we'll look at the results, and see from that group of those middle
candidates which ones rise to the top. And my hope, again, is that we can look at that and say,
maybe at that point, we have three that seem to differentiate themselves to sit at the top of the pool.
If we don't, and we're still stuck, we do it again. And we keep going through this until we get a
group of three candidates that we feel comfortable with enough consensus that we want to move
forward with. And again, this is not a vote.
This is not-- so what we will do is pause for a moment. I have told the candidates I'm going to call
them that morning. They need to be available through either text if they are in a meeting that they
can't get out of and they can't answer the phone.
But this is their opportunity. They can't back out, because we're going to go into public session
and take a vote. And their name is going to be out there. It'll be embarrassing for RTD. It'll certainly
be embarrassing for them to say we named them as a finalist, and then they're not going through
with, it because their agencies are going to find out about it and everything-- their organization.
So I'm going to very quickly call up and say, congratulations, it looks like they're going to go into
public session and vote for you. It's not done until they take a vote. But it looks like they would
want to move forward with you as a finalist. Can you please let me know that you're committed to
this, and you're moving forward and you're not going to withdraw? I'm hopeful all three that you've
picked will say yes.

If for some reason one of those three says no, I think we should have that fourth person who we
would probably go to it to make our top three finalists. But I will also let the three know that they're
not moving forward. So I will take a moment to very quickly call all six of those candidates to talk
to them, starting with the three we want to move forward with, to make sure that they want to move
forward. And then call the other three just to say thank you, but we're going to go in a different
direction.
And so that's the plan, then you would dismiss the executive session. You'd come out into public
session. I think it a discussion would take place. Somebody would make a recommendation of the
top three candidates.
A motion will be made, a second, and then my guess is a vote-- an actual vote like council
explained, where there would be a voice vote. They would be tallied. And then that would be a
record. The record into effect of what your vote was.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Director Guissinger does that answer your question? Can you unmute your- can you? Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Super helpful. Thank you. That's sound good. Again, I haven't had a chance
to really delve into the process. But that seems good.
I have two questions. I think that the document talks about, during our discussion, that there's two
tiers. The committee is talking and other people add in a perspective. But it sounds like you're
saying all-- I mean, it seems like everybody who's that there ought to be part of the discussion if
they're voting.
So maybe I misread that, or something. But I think that all the Directors should be part of the same
discussion. And then-- what was my other question?
Just to be clear, I think that the courts told CU they couldn't pick one finalist. But if we ended up
with two, I guess that's a Melanie question, or maybe it's Gregg. I mean, I'm not saying-- I think
three is ideal. But if two or four rise to the top or something, there's nothing wrong with that, right?
GREGG MOSER: I'll let Melanie answer the question about four. I think the idea of two makes
me really nervous in a CEO process, because we're going to do formal background checks. We're
going to do really deep-dive references beyond what I've done today. Something could come up
with a candidate.
I mean, there's a lot of moving parts in our world right now, and something could come up. And if
we're at two and one withdraws, or we have to not be able to select one for some reason, you have
no choice at that point. So to me, three feels a lot better and safer than just having two. But I'll let
Melanie speak to the idea of four.
MELANIE SNYDER: I would have agree at least three is what you should be looking at for your- identified as your finalists. You can have more than three. But I think if you get less than three
is where you're going to have a challenge there.

GREGG MOSER: The only other thing I would say is, just remember, this is-- and we're going to
talk about the next steps of the process. This is going to be incredibly invasive for these folks.
Like, what we're talking about possibly doing is going to put these candidates in direct exposure
for 2 and 1/2 weeks with videos, possibly online, that their employees can see.
Other people can see their Board members if they're a CEO, or they were working in an
organization with Boards. Their public stakeholders can see. So I think we should be mindful that
if we're not really serious about someone, we should work really hard to get down to the three
we're really serious about. Because it's just not fair to someone to put them out there and string
them along, and put them through what we're about to go through, to not be serious about it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Actually, I think that the nuanced question that we were trying to
get at was the idea of the confidentiality, in terms of providing input to Gregg, for your top three,
whether it be done just going around in our open session-- not open to public, but in our discussions
and going around the room and expressing your preference for the three. Or whether you wanted
to do it via email or text to Gregg, for him to assemble [AUDIO OUT] manner.
And I think that's really the question that we're trying to get an answer to, as to people's preferences.
During that top three, and then the process that Gregg described. And I think he's fine doing it
either way.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't know that I feel strongly, if you're asking me for my answer.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, the process that Gregg just outlined makes-- yeah, I
mean I like that process completely. In terms of which way do we want to go, I guess I'm neutral
on that whole process. And so I'd like to think about it a little bit during this meeting. But right
now, I'm OK with-- I don't know. I'm OK with either.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, and if I might offer this, if other people want to think about it, if they're
not comfortable stating their preferences in front of the whole group, that's not something that we
have to decide today necessarily. I mean, we have to decide by the 7th, right, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I mean, that's something we can-- if we're comfortable with the process
I described, that little nuance could be decided very quickly either in our discussion or prior to
that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, so why don't we table that discussion for now? But I do appreciate your
explanation. Are there any other questions about the selection of the finalists?
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff Walker.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Jeff.

JEFF WALKER: Hi. No question. I just wanted to say that I like the process that Mr. Moser laid
out. And I'm fine with either option of stating my preference privately or publicly, or I guess,
publicly in the [AUDIO OUT]. But thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Somebody has their hand up, but I'm not seeing who it is.
GREGG MOSER: Looks like Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Shontel.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I'm sorry. The hand up is in a circle that has plus 4, on my screens. I
apologize
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's totally OK. I just have a clarifying question. So we talked about the
discussion with committee members, the discussion with non-committee members and [AUDIO
OUT]
PEGGY CATLIN: You're breaking up
SHONTEL LEWIS: --find some consensus [AUDIO OUT]. I'm sorry?
PEGGY CATLIN: You're breaking up. I didn't hear your whole sentence.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK. Sorry about that. I just had a question about the process in finding
consensus.
So we talked about committee members. We talked about non-committee members. And I guess
I'm just wondering what that process looks like in real time with committee members and noncommittee members, specifically if there is disagreement on who the top two to three candidates
might be.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, this opening up the process to the whole Board now does not discern
among committee members or non-committee members. Each member of the Board who chooses
to participate by either in-person with the interviews or reviewing by tape, as John has said we can
do, will have an opportunity to participate in the deliberation and in the selection process also. So
it's regardless of committee member or non-committee member. It's any Board member who
chooses to participate. Melanie Snyder has a comment on that. Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: And I just wanted to clarify, that's absolutely correct. But my understanding
also, though, was that the intention was that only committee members would actually be asking
questions during the interview-- that it wouldn't be open to all Directors to ask questions. That was
my understanding. But I think we should clarify that if that's not the case.
PEGGY CATLIN: That was correct.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So-PEGGY CATLIN: -- McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I didn't think that's what we talked about earlier. But we aren't on the
subject of the candidate questions yet.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's correct. Melanie, we had a discussion earlier today. So Director Lewis,
did that answer your question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, because I think we would go out of the executive session, and we would
then actually have a formal vote. And so I guess I'm curious as to, if we're allowing both committee
members and non-committee members, if they participate in all of the interviews, to have an
informal vote, how do we get to the finalist with committee members and non-committee
members? It's a process question. And so I'm really trying to see how that plays out.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Gregg, do you want to speak to that-- the clarity of that section again?
GREGG MOSER: About asking questions? Is this about the asking questions?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, about, if I heard it correctly, the process of who gets to choose-through the process, who gets to give a head nod for the candidates moving forward to finalists-what that looks like at the end of the executive session, and what happens once we come out of the
executive session. Is that correct, Director?
That's correct.
OK.
GREGG MOSER: I think the part about who gets to help provide input on which candidates are
going through that process that I just described, about rising to the top, I think that originally, my
understanding was that was going to be the search committee, and that the bodies were going to
be able to provide input. But I understand there's been discussion about that-- about anybody who
participates in the interviews can provide input, and be part of this process to help select those
candidates. So if that's where we are, as long as you're part of the process and you participate
through the interviews, you can be part of that team. I'm calling the Directors, the collective
Directors, in this executive session the team that helps to identify and select those candidates who
are identified to be selected when we go into public session as finalists.
So let's say, for example, one Director cannot participate in the interviews. They would not, in
executive session, my understanding is, be able to provide input on the candidates, and be able to
help the rest of the group decide who is selected in executive session as a finalist. They're not-- to
state that another way, they're not able to help provide input that identifies a finalist that I will call
and say we're in executive session right now. Are you comfortable with us coming out of executive
session, and taking a formal action, a public vote, to name you as a finalist in this process?

But when we go into public session, when we left the executive session, and we're going to make
a determination and an announcement, and a recommendation and nomination, a second, and then
we take a formal vote, all the Directors can participate in that formal vote because that is a public
process. It's a public vote. That's my understanding. Is that correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's correct. Director Lewis, when we started this meeting, I said that the
charter as written does not include a specific procedure for narrowing the candidate or what stage
an action must be approved by the full Board. There were several Board members who understood
that they-- both non-committee members and committee members who understood that, during
this winnowing down of candidates from six to the finalists, they would be able to participate in
that process. So we clarified that with the recommendation from Melanie Snyder that this process
be opened up to all Board members who chose to participate, whether or not they were on the
committee. Director Guissinger, do you want to elaborate on that a little bit?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just actually have a question about what-- I'm not sure I heard Gregg
correctly. In the executive session, the people who participated in the interviews would vote, but
then all Directors would vote ultimately when we're out of executive session? Is that what [AUDIO
OUT]?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I just think those that participated in the selection process. Isn't that the
point?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it would be-- if you were not part of the selection process in
executive session, you would not come out and be part of it for the final vote. Normally, we are
not at this point yet. Under past circumstances, the committee would go through the whole process.
Some Board members would go to every meeting. They would work with their buddies. And then
for the final decision, the recommendation would come from the committee to the full Board, and
the full Board votes. We're not to that point yet. So I don't want to confuse that. I think that anybody
who is part of the interviews, or listens to the interviews-- all six sessions of the interviews, has an
opportunity to vote in executive session. Those who haven't would work with their buddies to
bring their feelings forward, but would not be able to vote.
PEGGY CATLIN: Let's clarify. We don't vote in executive session. That's why, when we talked
about the process, it was a deliberation and selection.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I know, but I think the question was after we came out of executive
session. And that would be a vote. But yes, you're correct.
It's a selection process in executive session. And then all of the participating folks vote. And then
when we come out, that same group of people vote this forward.
Thank you.
Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Does that clarify for you, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Honestly, I'm still a bit confused about it, mostly because how we talked
about this, up until this point, was that the members of the committee would be essentially the
deciders, not voters-- at least not in executive session. And so I'm just a bit confused. Also, I'm
thinking about the folks who aren't on this call, so particularly our buddies. And so they haven't,
like many of us, had the interviews on their calendars as save the dates.
And at least my discussion with my buddy, and you all can tell me what the discussion has been
for your buddies, is that because my buddy would not be able to participate in the discussion, I'm
in the deliberation that he and I would have a conversation later on. But it sounds like it might be
more valuable for buddies, if they're able to, to actually participate in the discussions for each one
of the interviews, so that they can relay their own messaging without having to depend on me and
the lens that I might provide-- what I might share back with my buddy. Does that make sense.
PEGGY CATLIN: That still is an option with the buddy system if someone is not able to
participate as we'd outlined. But there were some non-committee members who fully accepted that
they'd be involved in this deliberation and winnowing down the candidates to two. Since the
charter was not clear-- even though we had those discussions before, the charter was not clear.
That's why we asked for some of the clarification and have posed this process by means of this
clarification. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I believe that-- I'll double check this with my team. But if I
communicated correctly, all of the directors should have these on their calendars, not just the
committee, because everybody was invited to minimally listen in on the interviews. But I'll go
back and double check that. And then just-PEGGY CATLIN: Director McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Doug is not a committee member, and he's saying thumbs up. Yes, he was
notified.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you for verifying that, Director Tisdale. Also, based on some of
the discussions that this committee is having today, Director Catlin is going to be preparing-- and
Gregg won't be making any corrections to these three documents as we're making changes and
moving through this process, and then get them to Director Catlin. And Director Catlin is going to
be preparing an email outlining how this process will be moving forward so that everybody will
be in the loop minimally by mid-morning tomorrow.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, any other questions about this process? I don't see any other hands up.
Director Lewis, your hand is still up.
Are you done, or do you have a follow-up question? OK, you still seeing the hand up. Barbara, do
you have another comment?

BARBARA MCMANUS: No, my hand should be down.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well it's still up.
[LAUGHS]
I got a text from John McKay, but the end of his text is running off my screen, so I can't read it.
John, do you want to let me know what-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Go ahead, John.
JOHN MCKAY: I was going to say, Brett Feddersen has joined us. He is the Manager of Shared
Technical Services, and is one of the higher-ups in the IT department. And he is here to speak to
Microsoft Stream, which is another companion app within the Microsoft suite, and he thinks that
might be a good fit for what the committee is looking to do.
PEGGY CATLIN: Brett, I have a question for you. Is it a secure means of transmitting video?
BRETT FEDDERSEN: Yes, it is. So it honors all role boundaries. So you certainly can publish it
for anybody to see.
But you can also publish a video to where only certain members, the people that you want to have
see a video, can see it. And we can probably set up a folder that would have-- although everyone
that you want to see it and only those people who want to see it. And then any of the videos that
you put in there would automatically default to those permissions.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that could not be transferable or forwarded?
BRETT FEDDERSEN: Someone could forward it. But if they didn't have the permissions to see
it, it wouldn't show them anything. It wouldn't allow them past that barrier for them to go in and
be able to see the video.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Brett, Barbara McManus. Different Directors have different types of
technology. Can you speak to the reader that would need to be utilized, and if there are any
differences with Apple products? Or is all of this done within Office 365? Because we'll need to
articulate that to everyone.
BRETT FEDDERSEN: So let me just ask a clarifying question. Are you asking the viewing of the
videos solely, or you're asking the posting of the videos?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I probably need the answer to both. I don't know if everybody
does. Your team needs to set this up. And so would we need someone on call for the timing at the
end of each of these sessions to make sure that that happens, number one? And that's a back office
process question. And then you can speak to the end user experience.

BRETT FEDDERSEN: So everything in Office 365 begins with it being browser based. So if you
wanted to view the video, you open it up in whatever browser that you want. And certainly, you
can have a difference of experience between different browsers. And you put it in your credentials,
and you're able to view and see the video on there.
So in terms of any kind of reader, or anything on top of that that augments the experience, it would
be the same experience for that that you would see elsewhere. I mean, it just renders a browser in
a video the same way that YouTube or Vimeo, or any of those other services. You have a full
feature to play, stop, back up, et cetera, on that.
And on the back end side, we'll certainly get it set up. And then just when you're done with the
video, you just save it to that file location and you're done. So in theory, that would be very plugand-play on your side.
Once the setup is done, very minimal. I mean, just as soon as you save the video, you post it there.
It's ready to stream. And then you would need to communicate out to the folks to let them know
that there's a video there that they can go see.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there a timeout period on that, Brett?
BRETT FEDDERSEN: In terms of-- there are many different types of timeouts. Could I ask you
to clarify that just a little bit?
PEGGY CATLIN: Somebody can't save it to, say, their Dropbox and it-BRETT FEDDERSEN: No, so the difference between stream, as opposed to, like, saving it to
OneDrive-- OneDrive, you're saving a native file. It's just like saving it to, like, your C drive or to
your desktop. What stream is, it's actually a video streaming service. So you're actually just
streaming a video for someone to view and consume.
And there probably-- I mean, if somebody truly wanted to try to jinx the system and downloaded
it, I'm sure that they could. It's just not very likely that that would happen. But it's not like you
could save the video file somewhere else, because it's actually just stored on the server, and it just
rendered to you in a streaming fashion to your browser.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Are there any other questions about this? OK, I think the consensus is that,
as Director Guissinger put it, we do have, to the extent we can, avail every Director [AUDIO OUT]
interviews [AUDIO OUT] see.
All right, is next on the agenda the questions for [AUDIO OUT]? Gregg, you want to talk a little
bit about the questions?
GREGG MOSER: Yes, thank you. So thank you for everybody who provided input on questions
and sent those to me. I did not exclude any question that was submitted to me. So I compiled all
of the questions submitted.

I also compiled it and put it together with all the questions that were used in the interim General
Manager CEO selection process when Paul Ballard was selected. And then on top of that, I went
through a list of questions I had and picked up a handful-- I don't know, six to 12 questions, that I
thought might be useful to look at and reflect on to see if any of those, based on what I knew you
were looking for, would be helpful, and whether Directors would like to choose from those. So
one of the attachments that John sent out before this meeting was the list of questions.
I believe there's 40 questions on that list. I don't believe we have time to ask 40 questions in these
two rounds of interviews. And so we're going to have to narrow this down a little bit. I-[SIDE CONVERSATION]
So my recommendation is that we do the following. And I think we should talk about this first. I
think we should open the first round of interviews.
These are the confidential interviews of the six candidates. I think we should open it up with a
question that starts off with, tell us in five minutes or less a brief biographical sketch of your
professional career-- just something very general. Go ahead, Melanie.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
-- in executive session by now?
MELANIE SNYDER: So that was my question. I think that, as you were all planning to-- if you're
planning to get into the detail of the possible questions, then really, I think that that's more
appropriate for the personnel matters basis in executive session.
PEGGY CATLIN: What I was getting at, Melanie-- if I might, and then we can go into executive
session. I was just going to get to the process. And really, Gregg, what I was aiming toward was
that he's received a number of questions from Directors. And I want to thank everybody for giving
that some thought.
But then we want each of the Directors or the committee members to send in their preferences for
their top question and their second choice. And then we will winnow those questions down to a
group of questions that we agree upon to be asked of each of the candidates. And that's really what
I wanted to talk about in this discussion was just how we would take that vast list that you were
all provided, and take it down to a more manageable size, so that we're asking each candidate the
same questions. That's really all I wanted to talk about. Now-- sorry Gregg.
GREGG MOSER: That's OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Now, pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(f)(l), Colorado Revised Statute for consideration
of personnel matters and 24-6-402(4)(c), Colorado Revised Statute for consideration of matters
requested to be kept confidential by state law [AUDIO OUT] (a) Roman numeral XI (a) and (c),
Colorado Revised Statute, confidentiality of executive position candidate records and effective

employment selection processes, end paren, regarding first round interviews of General Manager
/ CEO candidates. Do I have a motion to go into executive session?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I [AUDIO OUT] question. I'm wondering if this meeting is open to the
public that we're in currently. And do we need to go into a separate call?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, that was another-- thank you. I was going to get a motion to move into
executive session, and then inform everybody to hang up on this call. And you got an invite for
the executive session, so to redial in for that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. [AUDIO OUT] So moved.
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second? OK Any opposed? OK, so if you would please disconnect from this
call and redial in to [AUDIO OUT]?
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
I'm sorry, my-- [AUDIO OUT]. Director [AUDIO OUT], Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, and Tisdale
on the line. On the phone, we have Director Menten. And there are two numbers that I don't
recognize, one ending in 0958.
JOHN MCKAY: That's John McKay.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, and one ending in 3568?
VINCE BUZEK: That's Buzek, Madam Chair. My computer was dying, so I'm on the phone now.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, welcome. OK. [AUDIO OUT]. So we are still missing Director Walker
and Director Cook and Director Guissinger.
DOUGLAS TISDALE: Madam Chair, this is Director Tisdale. And Director Walker did tell me
earlier that he might have to break away for a short period or something for his day job, but that
he would rejoin. I will send him a text message now advising him when he rejoins to rejoin the
executive session invite.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate that. Director Cook has just joined. Director Guissinger
is on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Who are we missing? OK, so I think we're ready to move into executive
session. So Gregg, do you want to start with the questions-- the more detailed?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. Sorry for jumping the gun on the last call.
PEGGY CATLIN: No problem.
GREGG MOSER: So I think that the thought was we just have too many questions to get through.
And what I think we were talking about doing was starting off the interview-- we have one hour
with each candidate. And my thought

2020-07-30
GMO-GME, pt. 2
PEGGY CATLIN: Tisdale. Who again is 0958?
JOHN MCKAY: That's me, John.
PEGGY CATLIN: John? OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin, we have at this point invited Pauletta to join us as well.
So if she doesn't join us through Teams, we may see her number.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you for the heads up. So we know-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek is here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I see your number popping up. Thank you. OK. We are reconvening the
open portion of our meeting at 5:06 PM. Paul Ballard, Director Cook, Gregg Moser, Director
Lewis, Director Lubow, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Director Menten, Chair RiveraMalpiede, General Counsel Melanie Snyder, Director Tisdale.
And by phone, we have-- oh, and then we have John McKay by phone, and we have Director
Buzek and Director Walker. OK. Has Pauletta joined yet?
SHELLEY COOK: [SIDE CONVERSATIONS] I've got to get-- I've got to get something where
I could-PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook? Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yeah. Sorry. Sorry, sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's OK. You can mute.
GREGG MOSER: Operator, did you call Pauletta, or should I?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I texted her.
GREGG MOSER: OK. I'll follow up.
PEGGY CATLIN: So some of these little glitches are precisely the reason that we need the have
some discipline in the interviews. Gregg, why don't we talk about the schedule moving forward
before we go to Pauletta?
GREGG MOSER: OK. So we have the interview scheduled for the 5th and 6th. We have our
executive session scheduled for the 7th and a public Board meeting, public meeting after that to
take action to vote on the finalist candidates on the 7th. At that point in time, we're going to start- I will start some deep dive diligence on the candidate's background checks, things like that.
At the same time, we're going to make known-- Pauletta and her team are going to do a press
statement announcing the finalist candidates with a headshot and a very short bio on each of the
candidates that we've named as finalists. Our plan is to tell the stakeholders when we do this to
send a notice out to our stakeholders to be on the lookout for a presentation from candidates and a
survey. And we'll talk more about that in a minute, so I'm not going to go into a lot of detail there.
It'll get confusing.
We then have scheduled final round interviews on the 19th and 20th. We have those on the
calendar. It should have an invite from Barbara's office, holding those times for you for those
interviews. I think there is time held, I want to say, on the 25th for a Board meeting, an RTD Board
meeting to take action to select the next GM CEO on August 25, if I'm correct.
I think in between the 7th and the 19th, that final round, the beginning of the final round of
interviews, I think we're going to need another GMES meeting to discuss and fine-tune our process
for an approach for that round of interviews. And any last remaining items in terms of, again, how
we're going to go through a selection process from going from three to one. My guess is we'll use
something similar to what we're using from going from six to three, but I think we should have a
meeting in between there to have some-PAULETTA TONILAS: OK, I think on, Paul. OK. I think I'm on. OK, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta, can you mute your mic?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. Sorry about that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Go ahead, Gregg.

GREGG MOSER: So those the high-level dates. We have some details to talk about more
specifically about the stakeholder engagement process, but those are the dates that are set aside for
the structure of the process we have right now. We have some dates we've identified for some
stakeholder engagement that we can talk about. I think it just might make sense to talk about it as
we get into the details of that stakeholder engagement, if that's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that's fine. Are there any questions, or should we just move on to the
public outreach discussion?
JUDY LUBOW: I have a question. Can you hear me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Because my team's process is not working well. It hasn't been for the
last few minutes. But in any case, I remember, I believe for the interim, that the directors were
allowed to also call references. Is that part of what's going to happen here too?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do not believe so. And I think we want to avoid directors calling candidates
or directors calling references, and we'd like to leave that up to Gregg Moser. And I'm seeing a
head nod from Melanie. Would you like to respond to that, please?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. You know, I think that it's really important to have a very
consistent process and having one person doing those checks and handling the background check
process and the reference check process. So that would be my recommendation, that we keep that
very consistent and limited to Gregg.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think last time, what did happen was I know Director Menten did kind of an
over-the-shoulder listening when our personnel department checked references. So Director
Lubow, I think that was what we did the last time.
JUDY LUBOW: And so that would be available also.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, since Gregg is doing the reference check, it's a slightly different-mechanically, it looks a little different.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara, you want to comment on that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I believe Director Menten was there physically listening in over
Roger Vesely's shoulder with no comments, just listening. And they did have to announce that
there were other folks on the line as well. And the feedback that we received from Roger was that
he didn't think that he got some frank answers because of multiple people being on the line, number
one.

And number two, in this particular venue with COVID, doing it online or via the phone or teams
meeting or whatever, it's not really the same as listening over someone's shoulder. I think that there
are some differences there.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I think Gregg would like to comment on that. And also, for the record,
Director Guissinger has joined. She had some issues getting into teams as well, Director Lubow.
OK, Gregg? Can you unmute yourself, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: I'm not discussing specifically whether directors sort of participate in the
reference checking or not, but maybe I can talk for a moment about what my reference checking
entails, and maybe that'll help guide us to this discussion we're having right now. So what I would
like to do is I think it's really important for me to talk to someone that they've worked for, someone
who's worked for them, and someone who has been a peer of theirs.
So for example, let's say we had a candidate who was a CEO. To talk to a former Board member
or Board chair in the recent past or an employee of theirs that they trust or appear if there was-you know, if they're a CEO, maybe there's a CFO or someone like that that they've worked with.
Obviously, as a CEO, you're the number one. There's not necessarily a peer.
But can talk to a couple different employees that they've worked with. If I know people that are
outside of that sphere of references they give me, I can certainly call those people as well.
Typically, what I do is I ask a lot of detailed questions. My style is to be very conversational,
because I think it gets people to open up and talk to you pretty candidly and get some good
responses. I have worked with Boards before where the Board members have asked me to ask
specific questions that they thought were important for them to hear feedback on from the
references.
So for example, if you saw candidate A had something that you wanted me to dive into deeper
with a reference, I'm happy to do that if you wanted to provide me with that sort of question to ask
in my interview process, my reference checking process. I type up all my references. So I
summarize it and type it all for you, and I will tell you who the reference was so you know who
the reference came from.
I don't believe in putting negative things in references in a written document, because it is public
information, and these are people's perspective and opinion. And to get a true recommendation,
not to have that in written form. But I think in our executive sessions, that's where I have the
opportunity to discuss things with you and to be able to give you information and talk about it
verbally as well.
So I think that that's another thing I typically do through these processes as well. And so I'll stop
there. That's usually how I go through my process of doing reference checking, and I'll open it
back up to this discussion about the participation.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Can I ask a question?

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. If hypothetically there were candidates who had issues that really
needed to be vetted to understand what happened, to get a real good sense of how valid or how
disturbing or anything how an issue really comes out, maybe need more than an interview or a
reference with three people. Maybe it needs more digging.
GREGG MOSER: Absolutely. I mean, and that may be talking to a union president or talking to
somebody in the community. So absolutely. If we see something that comes up that we feel needs
to be probed deeper, then we need to do that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. That's helpful.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any other questions about that? So at this point, I don't think there will be
Board participation in that process.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right. Public outreach discussion. I'd like to turn it over to Pauletta and
Gregg. I don't know which of you would like to go first.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I'm happy to play backup to Gregg, because he kind of synthesized it for
us, and we had a great conversation yesterday about this. So Gregg, I'll follow your lead.
GREGG MOSER: All right. Great. Well, thank you. So I know it's been incredibly important, and
it is incredibly important to the RTD stakeholders and community and to all of the Board members
that public input is-[BACKGROUND NOISE]
--sorry. Would someone [SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, could you mute your-- thank you.
GREGG MOSER: So what I was saying was I appreciate the incredible importance of stakeholder
input in this process, and I think it is an incredibly important part of the process. So this is
obviously unique and different, and we're doing the best we can under the circumstances of
managing through COVID and making sure that everyone is safe. And yet at the same time, making
this as open and transparent and obtaining as much feedback as possible.
I think the other thing that we're trying to be really mindful of-- and I think I mentioned this earlier
on the call-- is that at the point on August 7 where we announce the finalists to July 25 is threeplus weeks in time where these candidates are going to be exposed to public scrutiny, and whatnot.
And again, if they're an employee, if they're an executive, or whatever their position is, their peers,
their employees, their bosses are all going to be looking at this information, because it's all going
to be out there.

It's going to hit the transit newswires. It's going to hit other newswires. And it's going to become
public information. And word of mouth travels very fast, so we're trying to do this in an expedited
manner that we can balance the transparency, the public input, and also just treat our candidates
respectfully and fairly.
So I think-- and we spent a lot of time debating a lot of different situations, scenarios, ways to
control the process, but also offer that transparency. And I think we tried to come up with
something that I believe will capture most everything everybody was looking for.
And so what we decided we thought we would do is have the candidates prepare a 15-minute
presentation of their vision for RTD. And we can refine this question-- but what their vision is for
one, three, and five years. And obviously, a lot changes in five years. Look at how much has
changed in the last one year for all of us.
And so I don't believe that the goal of the presentation is, did they actually find a solution to all
our problems? Because the problems are complicated, the challenges are large, the community's
needs are very different based on different communities from the input I got from stakeholders.
But I think that the goal is to have them lay out sort of their vision based on the limited knowledge
they have, documents we may give them, public documents they can find online, diligence they've
done, and see if they can prepare a presentation that is thoughtful, communicative, that helps to
address the issues, pulls in the stakeholders that they would need to pull in to get through some of
these issues, to engage in the processes. Talk about management, talk about operations, talk about
finance, talk about labor. Dive in all these areas and give you some feedback.
So we would record those interviews. That would be the first 15 minutes of their one-and-a-halfhour finalist interview. We would record those. And then Pauletta and her team would put those
on the RTD website.
We're going to tell our stakeholders ahead of time to expect these interviews to be available on
RTD's website and to be on the lookout for them. And also, be on the lookout for a survey that
we've prepared that you can respond to.
And we're going to give you-- our goal is to prepare that survey ahead of time, and that's one of
the reasons why, I think, we need another GMES meeting before the final interviews is to share
those questions that we're going to send to the stakeholders so you're aware of what's being asked
of the stakeholders. Our goal is that it's reflective of the candidates, but also what feedback we've
gotten from the stakeholders and what can be responsive from that 15-minute presentation.
And so we're going to post these videos, we're going to have the survey available to them, and the
videos will be posted on Thursday, August 20. And we would ask the stakeholders to provide their
feedback by Monday morning, the opening of business on August 24.
And the goal would be that we compile all of that information and we have that available to you
when we come into executive session to talk about the candidates and the feedback we've been
provided so that we can use that information in that process of selecting our ultimate candidate.

Does anybody have a question? So I'm going to address critical stakeholders in a moment. That's
the general stakeholder engagement process for general stakeholders.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any questions of Gregg? I don't see any. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Mr. Ballard also had his hand up. He actually was before me, so
I'll let him speak.
PAUL BALLARD: I'll be very brief. One of the things we also talked about earlier on the staff
call was now that the Board has adopted the goals that we should share those with the candidates.
And I think that will be very helpful for them to see the Board's thinking at this point. And so that's
one of the things that we also propose to send out to them. Thank you, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Paul. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, just a question of clarity, Mr. Moser. The stakeholders, so the last time
we did this when we hired Mr. Ballard, we were able to post on social media the three candidates,
and the general public could vote, quote, unquote, "vote" for their favorite candidate and email
their feedback to a specific email account that went directly to the Board to which they compiled
all of that feedback and then presented it-- to the Board office, rather, and presented it to the Board
for review. Is that also going to be a part of the process?
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe Melanie Snyder has a comment. Is it to that point?
MELANIE SNYDER: It's not. Let's go ahead and address Director Lewis's question, and then I
can jump in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg? Or maybe Pauletta?
GREGG MOSER: So I think that the thought process is we can make this information available
on RTD's websites. I believe you have a format to send information out to stakeholders that are
RTD stakeholders. So you can send out a blast notification. I believe we can also put it on your
other social media sites. So if you use Twitter or Facebook or those sorts of things, we can make
it available through RTD's social media platforms.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, I think that-PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta, go ahead.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I'm sorry. I didn't raise my hand the right way electronically. Sorry about
that. So I'll just jump in and say that everything we do to communicate from here on out, each of
the milestones, when you narrow the field down to the three finalists, we of course will be doing
a press release. We'll be using social media. We'll put it on our website.

As it relates to the presentations of the finalists and then giving people an opportunity to weigh in,
yes, Director Lewis, as you said, we will have the photos and the bios and the resumes up there as
we did before. That was available on our website for people to at their leisure read about these
candidates. It was candidates before, and now we're talking about finalists.
The survey that Gregg was referencing will also be on the web page, just like it was for the interim
CEO. And so there will be that opportunity. The one piece that I don't think we have any answer
to at this point is whether or not there will be a direct email where people can give a subsequent
comment beyond the online survey that we're going to develop.
So again, the materials will all be on the website. People can see their photos. They can read their
bios and their resumes. But then we were going to have the online survey right there so that they
can go into the survey and give their feedback that way.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. That's helpful. The survey, it feels sufficient. It was more of, if a
constituent asks me how they might participate, what am I as a director sharing with them for them
to learn more about the candidates?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Great. No, that's excellent, because it gives me an
opportunity to stay-- and in alignment with what Gregg said-- we will blast this out in many ways.
We have a very large stakeholder distribution list that we send out our periodic newsletters to. It's
thousands of people. It's every elected official in the region. It's key stakeholders, business leaders,
the TMOs, TMAs, and others. So it will be going out through that.
But then also, we'll be able to share info with you guys that you'll be able to share to other
constituents that you want. And again, blast it out in social media, do a news release so that people
are aware of this opportunity. If they aren't able to watch the videos for whatever reason, but they
want to read the bio and see the picture and then do the survey, they're free to do that as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And my last question, Chair Catlin, will the materials be
translated into other languages?
PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, typically everything we do-- so the survey will be in Spanish as
well as English, just like what we've been doing with all of our surveys. So that will happen. And
the material will be available. And actually, on our website, we have the feature where people can
translate it into a number of different languages. And so as it relates to the website, that's a great
tool.
But we will do the online survey in English and Spanish. And then if there's any actual brochure
or flyer or anything that we do to support the process, that would be in English and Spanish as
well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. What about their presentations?

PAULETTA TONILAS: The presentations, we would not translate those into various languages.
I would say, yeah, we didn't really talk about that in terms of the actual video. It will be accessible.
We'll make those accessible in terms of what we do with our videos. But we wouldn't be translating
those video clips of their presentations in other languages.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. If we might think about-- I'm just thinking about from an accessibility
standpoint. And if we are wanting folks to make an informed decision, if we offer the survey in
English and Spanish but the presentations in only English, it might be a barrier to accessing those
documents for folks who might not speak English as a first language. And so we might just look
into if it's possible to do so.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. I'll talk to my team about that and we'll see. Because again, the
files will be ADA accessible. But as far as various languages, that's what we'll have to look into.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much, Pauletta. Those are all my questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. In the queue, I see Chair Rivera-Malpiede Eddie wants to speak.
But we also have Melanie Snyder. And then Paul Ballard, you still have your hands raised, virtual
hand raised. Did you have something else to add?
PAUL BALLARD: Nope.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Melanie first, and then Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. So I just wanted to clarify our process with respect to what
we're going to be recording and when we're recording it and what we're making available, because
I thought-- and Gregg, maybe you misspoke-- but my understanding is that the plan is to only
record this presentation, not the actual interview process. Is that right? OK.
And then for open meeting purposes, I think that I have some concerns about recording those
presentations in executive session and then making them available to the public. If they're going
to be made available to the public, they probably shouldn't be done in executive session.
So you might just think about actually even having those recorded separately ahead of time, and
then the directors could take a look at them at their convenience, and then you would just do the
interview portion in executive session. So that's just something to think about. Does that make
sense?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Hey, Gregg? Do you want to float the idea of the other option that
we had, that we'd talked about yesterday that is kind of sort in alignment with what Melanie is
saying as an option? That we are amendable to doing whichever works best, but that might answer
some questions in that regard.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I think what's suggested is these are done outside of the executive session
interview. So I guess there's really two options. One option adds a little bit more burden to
everybody. It kind of requires another series of time commitments.

So for the candidates, we'd have to have them scheduled for another time to do a video recording.
And for the directors, the directors would have to block off more time to be available to watch
their presentation. It just wouldn't feel right to the candidates to have a candidate get on with one
director to give a presentation to. So there was a discussion about possibly doing that the Monday
before the final round of interviews.
I suppose the other process is to do it on that Wednesday and Thursday. During the final round of
interviews to do their presentation not in the executive session interview, but to do it prior to going
into executive session in a video format, I guess.
You know, the downside to that that we ran into, the trouble, Melanie, what we were talking about
was if it's not in executive session, the other candidates can watch their interview. And then the
first person's most disadvantaged, because the third person gets to hear everything they've said and
then be able to provide any kind of insight and use what they said also.
So by doing an executive session, it controls the audience, and then we can put it out there. So I
don't know if we could do two executive sessions, one executive session for their interview, close
that one out, and go into a separate executive session for the question and answer portion of it, or
something like that to control the ability for the other candidates to hear their presentation.
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. And I think that's a good point as to fairness, for sure. My concern
is that if you're trying to preserve the confidentiality of this communication in executive session,
then that's one thing. But if you've decided it's actually going to be made available to the public, I
think it gets really hard to justify that you're doing that in executive session in the first place. Do
you see what I'm saying?
So I don't think it helps to have two separate executive sessions. The concern is recording in
executive session these presentations with the understanding that you're going to make them
available immediately to the public. It just doesn't feel like a legitimate basis to be in executive
session then, just for that presentation is what I'm saying.
PEGGY CATLIN: Even though it preserves the confidentiality of the candidates and speaks to the
fairness of candidates playing from the same playing field? Or on the same playing field?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. And I think that's a good point. I mean, I can do some checking. I
doubt that there's going to be case law on whether a personnel matter is a personnel matter and
then ceases to be a personnel matter because of a timing issue. That's really the basis that you're in
executive session for doing these interviews.
So I think it would be safer if you could record them separately. And maybe they're not doing it
live in front of each other where everyone can look. And that might actually be more-- the
candidates might actually like that better if they're just having the opportunity to record and do
their best and maybe not necessarily have to do that live and have it recorded. But have it recorded

separately and then you all watch it at a certain point, but not in executive session if you're planning
to make those public.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, do you want to speak to that?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I suppose one thing we could do-- and we could pick who it is. Maybe
it's myself and Paul Ballard. Maybe it's myself, Paul Ballard, and Director Catlin or the chair. But
maybe we get out on a video call with the candidates and record the presentations, so it's not a
public meeting.
And then we make those available so the other candidates can't join in or participate in it. And we
make those available, and we just do those ahead of time. We don't commit all of your schedules
to this because it's burdensome, and then we'd have to have a public session by having so many
members together at one time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie, do you want to speak to that.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, that would address my concerns. I mean, the reality is-- and I don't
even know that-- I know it could be a little artificial to have someone doing a presentation to no
audience, but that's also an option to just have them record their presentation for you all to view
later.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that might be something we should look into. In the queue is Chair
Rivera-Malpiede, then Director Buzek, and then-- I saw another hand, but maybe [AUDIO OUT]
Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is actually a really great
conversation. And I too am always concerned about anything that we send out to the community
at large is at least bilingual.
But the other part that I'd like to make sure is as we're doing outreach, Pauletta, we have all the
emails of the people who did submit comments last time for Mr. Ballard when he was being hired.
And I want to make sure that they're included in the outreach stuff that we send out, because I want
them to know there's another piece going on now, and I want to get their voice on it.
PAULETTA TONILAS: OK. Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. And I think Gregg's going to speak to some of our special
stakeholders in a minute. But in the meantime, Director Buz-- or, did that answer your questions,
Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks. I'm kind of confused. The video presentation by the candidates
is in fact a response to a question, isn't it? What's your view of RTD one, three, and five years. So
how is that interview question treated differently than every other interview question that takes
place in executive session? Is it a function of the intent to later publish the response? I guess I want
to just clarify that. Thanks.
MELANIE SNYDER: That's the issue. I don't know if you could hear me, but that is the issue, that
if you are knowing that you're going to make that immediately public, is that really a basis for
executive session? And if you really have no attempt of keeping that piece confidential.
VINCE BUZEK: Got It. OK, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your digital hand is still raised. Did you have
another follow-up question? Are you on mute? I think I'll just move on. Gregg, would you talk a
little bit about the-- I say, quote, "special" stakeholder outreach? And by that, I mean those people
that we asked him to reach out to prior to the selection. Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: So back at the beginning of the process, you may remember when we were
drafting the position description that we asked that specific stakeholders be reached out to
individually. And I collected a list of stakeholders that you provided that you asked me to reach
out to. And I got, I'd say, at least a 50% response rate back from those stakeholders providing
input.
That group of stakeholders, what our thought was was to have the exact same process we just
described a moment ago, but also provide in that survey that we provide an open-ended question
that allowed them to provide feedback as to the strengths, what they saw as strengths of the
candidates, or what they had as concerns and things like that as to the candidates. And so that
allowed them the opportunity to provide us some direct feedback so you could see from those
individuals what their thoughts were.
I just want to reiterate on all of this, whether it's those stakeholders or the broader stakeholder
audience, timing is really short for all of this. If we do this and post these, at most, depending on
when we actually record these videos and make them available, the opportunity to get feedback is
going to be a matter of somewhere between four and six days, most likely.
So as soon as we make the announcement of our finalist candidates, we'll notify all stakeholders
to be on the lookout for this and the timing at which it's going to come out so that they're aware.
And then we're going to notify them again when it actually comes out, and notify them that they
have, again, somewhere between four and six days to review these and provide their input.
Otherwise, we have to [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any questions? Somebody has a motorcycle or something in the
background.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick comment that there may be some-- for instance, some of the
Accountability Committee people that we would want to reach out to as the other stakeholder
group.
PEGGY CATLIN: And actually, we talked about that earlier today. Director Guissinger will want
to make sure that at least the chair of that committee be notified that this would be made available
for them to provide input. So that's a good comment.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, this is Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: This is already a topic we've covered, but that same thought, a stakeholder
chamber of commerce executive or somebody might be a good contact for reference checks too. I
don't know if Gregg has done that or would consider that, but just a thought.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other comments about this outreach process? I just
want to check with the Board. Given Melanie Snyder's concern about making these videos
available to the public and concern about seeing them in executive session, is it all right with the
Board if Gregg Moser and Paul Ballard and Director Guissinger and I participate in those
recordings of those interviews so as to avoid a public meeting, and then making those tapes
available to individual directors?
Is there any objection to that? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't have an objective. Of course, I have a process question. I just want to
know the timing of when those videos would be downloaded and provided to directors for review
in time for us to be able to use that to evaluate candidates for our discussion to select finalists.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. If I might [AUDIO OUT] first, and then let Gregg Moser-- since this just
was posed as an idea in this meeting, we have not sorted that out yet. But we can get an answer
back to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So before I make a decision, I'd like to know that first.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: So Director Lewis, if I understood your question correctly, these videos would
not be recorded before finalists are identified. These videos would be of the three finalists. So they
will be made available to you and the entire stakeholder group most likely prior to their actual
executive session interview with you. And they will be available and stay available until what I'm
thinking is Monday the 24th, Monday morning, the 24th. So at most, if we could do these the
Monday before, we'd have them available for maybe six to seven days.
Depending on availability of all these calendars of the people that were just talked about maybe
being involved-- Director Guissinger, Director Catlin, myself, Paul Ballard, and our three finalists-

- we might have to do it on Tuesday or maybe even Wednesday, and that would just shorten the
amount of time. But I wouldn't recommend we do it any later than Wednesday. I'd recommend we
do it sooner than later, because it just makes it available for that much longer. But again, just to be
clear, these are only the three finalists, not the entire sixth group.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. No, I did understand that. Thank you for the clarity, Mr. Moser. And
that does make sense. It was more of a timing-- so I asked about processes. I wanted to know how
much advance time we would have to be able to review them to utilize those for the discussion in
our evaluation. So that was very helpful, so thank you for that detail.
GREGG MOSER: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. And in alignment with what Director Lewis was saying and
what I just wanted to get on everybody's radar, because it might be like, oh, OK, yeah, if those
videos are taped beforehand by the group that was explained and we get those up on the website,
whether it's the Monday or the Wednesday or whatever, those also would be available to the Board
members to review prior to the actual finalist interviews.
So you're not going to have them then repeat those in the finalist interviews, right? Those are going
to be available for the Board members to review beforehand so when you get into the interview,
it's just, you guys don't have to repeat that, I guess is what I'm saying, right? And then to Director
Lewis's point, they're available to the Board as soon as we can get those downloaded and they're
available to everybody.
I believe that to be true. And I guess the candidates would need to know that, that those videos
would be in the public domain prior to them actually interviewing. I have some concerns about
that, because I mean, I would like the Board members to be able to view them.
But since it would not be a public meeting if we limited it to just two directors, could we not wait
until after they've had a chance to interview? Because I think that the candidates themselves can
view the other two candidates' interviews prior to the executive session where we conduct the
questions and answer.
Your thoughts about that, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I don't have a lot of thoughts. I mean, I think that you raise a valid point.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is Melanie still available?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, I'm here. But what we're talking about, just to be clear, is that the
candidates would record their presentations in advance of their interviews, right? And then those
would be posted. So all of the candidates would be able to see all of the presentations before their
interviews.

PEGGY CATLIN: At the same time.
MELANIE SNYDER: At the same time. Not that anyone would get to see-- no one would be
disadvantaged, because all of the interviews would be posted at the same time. That's what I'm
understanding for the process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is it necessary to publicly post them prior to their interviews, is what I'm
asking?
MELANIE SNYDER: No. There's not a legal reason that you'd have to do that.
GREGG MOSER: We could do it right after.
PEGGY CATLIN: My suggestion is that they'd be made available to the Board prior to the actual
interviews, to the Board only. And then after the interviews, as planned, then we can have those
available to the general public. Would there be a problem with that [AUDIO OUT]?
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff Walker.
PEGGY CATLIN: Jeff? Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes, thanks. One of the criticisms that this Board or this agency has gotten is
lack of transparency. If it's public, it's public. So I would rather have everybody, stakeholders,
Board members, just as we're stakeholders, have access to those at the same time, whether or not
we can avail ourselves to schedule or to watch [SIDE CONVERSATIONS] is a different issue.
But the opportunity is there.
So I think in order to get rid of that criticism or at least to knock it down a notch would be to open
it up to the world at the same time for everybody without any preference to the Board. I don't see
any benefit for me to know 10 minutes before any of my constituents. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Any other comments about that? Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thanks very much, Chair. The only thing I was going to say is that by
posting those videos in the public realm before the interviews is really just very similar to what's
been done in the past with the forum that was held at the big room where all three of them were
able to then give their vision, and that was all before the interviews. And so this is similar to that.
That's all I was going to say, is that it follows that same process.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you for that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Gregg? Excuse me. This is Barbara McManus. Is that the right timing?
I thought that the in-person forums happened-- we did all the comment cards, we collected the
comment cards, we got them to the directors the following day, and then didn't we go to a vote?

GREGG MOSER: We had the-- yeah, we did, actually. So I think we interview the candidates in
the morning in executive session. Then that afternoon and evening, we had stakeholder
engagement. The next morning, we provided all the feedback in executive session, and we
deliberated amongst the directors as to which candidate was going to be selected. And then we
came out in public session and took a formal vote.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
GREGG MOSER: But if we wanted, the suggestion was to make it that all directors and the public
saw them all at the same times. The last interview is going to conclude-- and I don't have my
calendar sitting on in front of me as we're talking through this-- but the last interview will conclude
on Thursday, August 20, around lunchtime. So we could post the videos at that time. The directors
could see them and the public could see them. There will be a four-day period. Thursday, half a
day, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday morning. So a little less than four days for everybody.
That's longer than we had last time. Last time, again, with the big, open room, if you didn't come,
you weren't able to provide feedback, because we had those comment cards, and the comment
cards were due at the time you left the forum that night. So this actually is more inclusive and
provides a longer period of time for the public to provide input.
PEGGY CATLIN: So you're suggesting then that it's after the executive session interviews that
we would make them available.
GREGG MOSER: Right. We'll record them ahead of time. Pauletta and her team will make sure
they're ready to go and the technology's proper on the website. They'll make it go live on Thursday
when that last interview concludes.
PEGGY CATLIN: But when will Board members be able to view them?
GREGG MOSER: At that time. At that time, they'll be able to view them just like everybody else
on the RTD website. We're not going to decide any candidates until we come back together on
Monday the 24. So no decisions. Nobody has to make any decisions on what's the preferred
candidate.
You'll have four days to sleep on the executive session interviews. All the references, all the
background check information, and these video interviews, these video presentations. And then
we'll come back and go into an executive session on the 24th or 25th to discuss all the feedback
we receive from the stakeholders and deliberate.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So the Board members will not have benefit of that video prior to the
actual finalist interviews?
GREGG MOSER: If we follow that process, which is that the stakeholders and the Board get them
all at the same time.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.

GREGG MOSER: The advantage of seeing them ahead of time is you could ask questions about
their presentation during the interview. You won't be able to do that once they're-- they'll be back
doing what they're doing. You won't have an opportunity follow up with them. If we recorded
them on a Monday or Tuesday and you were able to view them before the executive session
interviews, you could say, I didn't understand what you meant by this. Could you please clarify
what you meant during your presentation?
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Board members. Anybody have any preferences?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think there's value in that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think-- value in seeing it ahead of time?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: I agree. Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. But with not making it available to the public until after the interviews?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I mean, I'll defer to others in terms of how we have to do the process,
but I think there's value in us seeing it before we interview our final chance.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I agree with Director Guissinger.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any other Board members want to weigh in? Barbara McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we could do this in the same way that we do-- that Gregg Federson
spoke to us about. John and I, of course, will have to test that, and we'll be doing that ASAP. But
I think the directors-- I think there's value in the directors seeing the videos prior to the interviews.
It could change how the questions are asked on both sides. I think there is value. And now that we
have a solution to be able to do that, we might as well use it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. McManus. I'm going to go through the Board members,
because we have actually two opinions on this, one being Director Walker and the other, Directors
Buzek and Guissinger. So I think I'll ask the other Board members their thoughts. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. I had a question, so my hand was raised and I totally forgot what my
question was, so I do apologize.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Go ahead.

PEGGY CATLIN: I was just going to say, with regard to previewing the videos prior to the
executive session question and answer period, or as Director Walker suggests, making those videos
available to Board members and the public at the same time prior to those interviews.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, yeah. So that was actually my question. And this will help me decide,
because I do think Director Walker has a really good point about the transparency piece, and we
do get criticized quite a bit. But my question is, will we be able in the actual interviews to ask
questions about the presentations?
PEGGY CATLIN: As we formulate the questions, I think that we can develop questions regarding
the presentations. Gregg, your thoughts on that?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. And Melanie, I'll ask you this question. I think there should be a little bit
more flexibility to the second round of interviews to get into some deeper, more substantive issues.
I mean, this is your GM CEO. This is the single most important decision you're going to make.
And if we scrub this so clean and so sterile that you don't really get into the core issues, then you're
not really doing what your fiduciary responsibility is, in my opinion.
We need to keep it professional and we need to keep it within the guidelines of what legal will
allow us to ask the proper questions and things. But I think that this is something where you want
to have that flexibility to see these presentations.
One perspective on this idea of the public and the Board seeing it at the same time, by recording
them ahead of time and doing this not in a public session, you're limiting the third candidate's
ability to watch the first two and then be able to modify and adjust. If you make them public for
the stakeholders to see ahead of your interviews, all of those candidates can recalibrate and prepare
their responses to your interview questions in the closed session interviews based on what they
heard the other candidates say to try to level the playing field and get what might be a competitive
advantage over another candidate.
So there might be a reason why you'd want to keep it to just the directors for that short period of
time before those interviews so that those other candidates can't see each other's presentations to
try to use that information that another candidate said that they didn't say to strengthen their
conversation with you in that executive session.
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie, your thoughts on that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. Again, I don't think it's an open meetings issue or a legal issue. I
mean, I guess I'm kind of agreeing with Pauletta in the sense that not the timing issue, but it would
be just like having an open stakeholder forum where you are in person and the candidates can give
their presentations and interact with people.
So I think to me, it's just sort of a different format. As long as you're posting all three of the videos
at the same time and no applicant's getting an advantage in having others being posted first, I'm
not seeing a legal issue with it.

PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I just think that the fairness to the candidates, as Gregg suggests, of
recalibrate, we might get a slightly different picture. Director Buzek, did you have your hand up?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't think I did. I don't think so. My comments remain the same. I'd like the
directors to see it for a short time frame before the interviews and then post it to the public right
after we've seen them or after the interviews, actually. I think that makes the most sense. I agree
with Gregg that it gives an unfair advantage to some of the candidates to post them ahead of time.
Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Cook, your thoughts?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, I thought Gregg's suggestion made sense. I was persuaded by
what he said and you have said, so I agree with you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Directors Lewis and Guissinger already weighed in. Chair RiveraMalpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also agree with Gregg. I think it
makes a lot of sense so that we could really get a clearer idea of how these candidates are answering
their questions before we send it out. So I agree with that process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. With all due respect and deference to
Director Walker, I tend to agree with what Gregg Moser has said, that you give an opportunity to
candidates to retool and speak sort of magic words that they think resonated with the people who
actually did the interview during that initial presentation. So I'm not a fan of that.
Although I will say for the sake of the record, it would be interesting, because someone who can
adjust that quickly and change their presentation may be a quick study and may be somebody we
want to look at. But on balance, I would be opposed to their having the opportunity to see it before
we do those interviews. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Dr. Tisdale. Finally, on the phone, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I will agree. To me, it'd be candidate A, or rather, candidate C picking the
best of-- and I could see where they could easily adapt-- but picking the best of from all of the
others. And so I am fine with this timeline, but I sure would like to get a good visual on where our
picture stands at now on this timeline. So Gregg, are you going to be able to modify up this timeline
relatively quickly, get that back to us? Because I'm just worried I may have missed something.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I will work on this this evening and first thing tomorrow morning. And
since I have the luxury of being a couple hours ahead of you, you'll have it tomorrow morning to
review all of what we've discussed and the timeline of how this would look.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm going to go to Barbara McManus. But we don't have a
unanimous preference here, but I think we do have a preference to have the videos made available
to the Board prior to the executive session interviews followed by releasing them to the public
immediately thereafter. So I think we had a majority of the participants in this call believe that. So
Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Oh.
PEGGY CATLIN: You just agree with [AUDIO OUT]?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. I am agreeing with you. I think that Gregg will finish the timeline,
and then we have the correction to the one other document and the list of questions.
And I think, Director Catlin, you're still planning on putting together an email overview of this
meeting, and we can attach some of the decisions that were made. And then we can attach those
three corrected documents with it to substantiate what we've discussed today for the directors that
weren't able to be on the call, and go from there. See what comments we get.
PEGGY CATLIN: I will probably work with you on that in the morning. I've got a few other
commitments.
Are there any other comments that directors have, or anyone else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So we've got the general manager executive search committee, and
we're going to be voting at a certain stage. So as I'm looking at the timeline now, we've got our
head nods during certain periods, and then we have the vote no later than August 25. We also have
those who are not on the GMESC, and they're also going to have access to those videos. So pretty
much, what it was stating up to this was if a non-committee member participated in the interviews
which then changed to, are you able to watch the videos, the recording, and listen to it, they would
also be able to weigh in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: But what is still in this plan is that just the GMESC is voting?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. Any Board member who has participated fully will be voting when we exit
the executive session.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'm glad to have that cleared up, because I think we were on a different
path up until today. Would that be correct?

PEGGY CATLIN: But that's because it was not clear in the charter. We asked for some
recommendations from our legal counsel. Director Guissinger and I worked with Melanie, and that
was the recommendation, to be more inclusive of the Board since the charter was actually silent
on when Board members would weigh in.
And because, as Director Guissinger pointed out, if just the committee were to weigh in and
through the selection process, perhaps there were four that had a preference for some and three
that had a preference for others, there would be, in fact, four Board members that would be
speaking on behalf of 15. And in fact, this was such an important decision we wanted to be more
inclusive of all the Board members. Director Guissinger, did I capture that correctly?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You did.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm glad to have that clarification. This is Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. Any other questions? I see two hands raised, or three hands
raised. I see Director Buzek, I see Gregg Moser, and Barbara McManus. Are those intentional or- OK.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
[LAUGH]
And I sincerely apologize that this meeting has gone on an hour and six minutes longer than
scheduled, and I appreciate every one of you for your patience and understanding. And I'd like to
entertain a motion to adjourn.
JUDY LUBOW: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Anyone opposed? Have a nice dinner, everybody.
Thank you all.

2020-07-30
GMES-GMOC, pt. 2
PEGGY CATLIN: Tisdale. Who again is 0958?
JOHN MCKAY: That's me, John.
PEGGY CATLIN: John? OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin, we have at this point invited Pauletta to join us as well.
So if she doesn't join us through Teams, we may see her number.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you for the heads up. So we know-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek is here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, I see your number popping up. Thank you. OK. We are reconvening the
open portion of our meeting at 5:06 PM. Paul Ballard, Director Cook, Gregg Moser, Director
Lewis, Director Lubow, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Director Menten, Chair RiveraMalpiede, General Counsel Melanie Snyder, Director Tisdale.
And by phone, we have-- oh, and then we have John McKay by phone, and we have Director
Buzek and Director Walker. OK. Has Pauletta joined yet?
SHELLEY COOK: [SIDE CONVERSATIONS] I've got to get-- I've got to get something where
I could-PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook? Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yeah. Sorry. Sorry, sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's OK. You can mute.
GREGG MOSER: Operator, did you call Pauletta, or should I?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I texted her.
GREGG MOSER: OK. I'll follow up.
PEGGY CATLIN: So some of these little glitches are precisely the reason that we need the have
some discipline in the interviews. Gregg, why don't we talk about the schedule moving forward
before we go to Pauletta?

GREGG MOSER: OK. So we have the interview scheduled for the 5th and 6th. We have our
executive session scheduled for the 7th and a public Board meeting, public meeting after that to
take action to vote on the finalist candidates on the 7th. At that point in time, we're going to start- I will start some deep dive diligence on the candidate's background checks, things like that.
At the same time, we're going to make known-- Pauletta and her team are going to do a press
statement announcing the finalist candidates with a headshot and a very short bio on each of the
candidates that we've named as finalists. Our plan is to tell the stakeholders when we do this to
send a notice out to our stakeholders to be on the lookout for a presentation from candidates and a
survey. And we'll talk more about that in a minute, so I'm not going to go into a lot of detail there.
It'll get confusing.
We then have scheduled final round interviews on the 19th and 20th. We have those on the
calendar. It should have an invite from Barbara's office, holding those times for you for those
interviews. I think there is time held, I want to say, on the 25th for a Board meeting, an RTD Board
meeting to take action to select the next GM CEO on August 25, if I'm correct.
I think in between the 7th and the 19th, that final round, the beginning of the final round of
interviews, I think we're going to need another GMES meeting to discuss and fine-tune our process
for an approach for that round of interviews. And any last remaining items in terms of, again, how
we're going to go through a selection process from going from three to one. My guess is we'll use
something similar to what we're using from going from six to three, but I think we should have a
meeting in between there to have some-PAULETTA TONILAS: OK, I think on, Paul. OK. I think I'm on. OK, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta, can you mute your mic?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. Sorry about that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Go ahead, Gregg.
GREGG MOSER: So those the high-level dates. We have some details to talk about more
specifically about the stakeholder engagement process, but those are the dates that are set aside for
the structure of the process we have right now. We have some dates we've identified for some
stakeholder engagement that we can talk about. I think it just might make sense to talk about it as
we get into the details of that stakeholder engagement, if that's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that's fine. Are there any questions, or should we just move on to the
public outreach discussion?
JUDY LUBOW: I have a question. Can you hear me?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Lubow?

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Because my team's process is not working well. It hasn't been for the
last few minutes. But in any case, I remember, I believe for the interim, that the directors were
allowed to also call references. Is that part of what's going to happen here too?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do not believe so. And I think we want to avoid directors calling candidates
or directors calling references, and we'd like to leave that up to Gregg Moser. And I'm seeing a
head nod from Melanie. Would you like to respond to that, please?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. You know, I think that it's really important to have a very
consistent process and having one person doing those checks and handling the background check
process and the reference check process. So that would be my recommendation, that we keep that
very consistent and limited to Gregg.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think last time, what did happen was I know Director Menten did kind of an
over-the-shoulder listening when our personnel department checked references. So Director
Lubow, I think that was what we did the last time.
JUDY LUBOW: And so that would be available also.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, since Gregg is doing the reference check, it's a slightly different-mechanically, it looks a little different.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara, you want to comment on that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I believe Director Menten was there physically listening in over
Roger Vesely's shoulder with no comments, just listening. And they did have to announce that
there were other folks on the line as well. And the feedback that we received from Roger was that
he didn't think that he got some frank answers because of multiple people being on the line, number
one.
And number two, in this particular venue with COVID, doing it online or via the phone or teams
meeting or whatever, it's not really the same as listening over someone's shoulder. I think that there
are some differences there.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I think Gregg would like to comment on that. And also, for the record,
Director Guissinger has joined. She had some issues getting into teams as well, Director Lubow.
OK, Gregg? Can you unmute yourself, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: I'm not discussing specifically whether directors sort of participate in the
reference checking or not, but maybe I can talk for a moment about what my reference checking
entails, and maybe that'll help guide us to this discussion we're having right now. So what I would
like to do is I think it's really important for me to talk to someone that they've worked for, someone
who's worked for them, and someone who has been a peer of theirs.

So for example, let's say we had a candidate who was a CEO. To talk to a former Board member
or Board chair in the recent past or an employee of theirs that they trust or appear if there was-you know, if they're a CEO, maybe there's a CFO or someone like that that they've worked with.
Obviously, as a CEO, you're the number one. There's not necessarily a peer.
But can talk to a couple different employees that they've worked with. If I know people that are
outside of that sphere of references they give me, I can certainly call those people as well.
Typically, what I do is I ask a lot of detailed questions. My style is to be very conversational,
because I think it gets people to open up and talk to you pretty candidly and get some good
responses. I have worked with Boards before where the Board members have asked me to ask
specific questions that they thought were important for them to hear feedback on from the
references.
So for example, if you saw candidate A had something that you wanted me to dive into deeper
with a reference, I'm happy to do that if you wanted to provide me with that sort of question to ask
in my interview process, my reference checking process. I type up all my references. So I
summarize it and type it all for you, and I will tell you who the reference was so you know who
the reference came from.
I don't believe in putting negative things in references in a written document, because it is public
information, and these are people's perspective and opinion. And to get a true recommendation,
not to have that in written form. But I think in our executive sessions, that's where I have the
opportunity to discuss things with you and to be able to give you information and talk about it
verbally as well.
So I think that that's another thing I typically do through these processes as well. And so I'll stop
there. That's usually how I go through my process of doing reference checking, and I'll open it
back up to this discussion about the participation.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Can I ask a question?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. If hypothetically there were candidates who had issues that really
needed to be vetted to understand what happened, to get a real good sense of how valid or how
disturbing or anything how an issue really comes out, maybe need more than an interview or a
reference with three people. Maybe it needs more digging.
GREGG MOSER: Absolutely. I mean, and that may be talking to a union president or talking to
somebody in the community. So absolutely. If we see something that comes up that we feel needs
to be probed deeper, then we need to do that.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. That's helpful.

PEGGY CATLIN: Any other questions about that? So at this point, I don't think there will be
Board participation in that process.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right. Public outreach discussion. I'd like to turn it over to Pauletta and
Gregg. I don't know which of you would like to go first.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I'm happy to play backup to Gregg, because he kind of synthesized it for
us, and we had a great conversation yesterday about this. So Gregg, I'll follow your lead.
GREGG MOSER: All right. Great. Well, thank you. So I know it's been incredibly important, and
it is incredibly important to the RTD stakeholders and community and to all of the Board members
that public input is-[BACKGROUND NOISE]
--sorry. Would someone [SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, could you mute your-- thank you.
GREGG MOSER: So what I was saying was I appreciate the incredible importance of stakeholder
input in this process, and I think it is an incredibly important part of the process. So this is
obviously unique and different, and we're doing the best we can under the circumstances of
managing through COVID and making sure that everyone is safe. And yet at the same time, making
this as open and transparent and obtaining as much feedback as possible.
I think the other thing that we're trying to be really mindful of-- and I think I mentioned this earlier
on the call-- is that at the point on August 7 where we announce the finalists to July 25 is threeplus weeks in time where these candidates are going to be exposed to public scrutiny, and whatnot.
And again, if they're an employee, if they're an executive, or whatever their position is, their peers,
their employees, their bosses are all going to be looking at this information, because it's all going
to be out there.
It's going to hit the transit newswires. It's going to hit other newswires. And it's going to become
public information. And word of mouth travels very fast, so we're trying to do this in an expedited
manner that we can balance the transparency, the public input, and also just treat our candidates
respectfully and fairly.
So I think-- and we spent a lot of time debating a lot of different situations, scenarios, ways to
control the process, but also offer that transparency. And I think we tried to come up with
something that I believe will capture most everything everybody was looking for.
And so what we decided we thought we would do is have the candidates prepare a 15-minute
presentation of their vision for RTD. And we can refine this question-- but what their vision is for

one, three, and five years. And obviously, a lot changes in five years. Look at how much has
changed in the last one year for all of us.
And so I don't believe that the goal of the presentation is, did they actually find a solution to all
our problems? Because the problems are complicated, the challenges are large, the community's
needs are very different based on different communities from the input I got from stakeholders.
But I think that the goal is to have them lay out sort of their vision based on the limited knowledge
they have, documents we may give them, public documents they can find online, diligence they've
done, and see if they can prepare a presentation that is thoughtful, communicative, that helps to
address the issues, pulls in the stakeholders that they would need to pull in to get through some of
these issues, to engage in the processes. Talk about management, talk about operations, talk about
finance, talk about labor. Dive in all these areas and give you some feedback.
So we would record those interviews. That would be the first 15 minutes of their one-and-a-halfhour finalist interview. We would record those. And then Pauletta and her team would put those
on the RTD website.
We're going to tell our stakeholders ahead of time to expect these interviews to be available on
RTD's website and to be on the lookout for them. And also, be on the lookout for a survey that
we've prepared that you can respond to.
And we're going to give you-- our goal is to prepare that survey ahead of time, and that's one of
the reasons why, I think, we need another GMES meeting before the final interviews is to share
those questions that we're going to send to the stakeholders so you're aware of what's being asked
of the stakeholders. Our goal is that it's reflective of the candidates, but also what feedback we've
gotten from the stakeholders and what can be responsive from that 15-minute presentation.
And so we're going to post these videos, we're going to have the survey available to them, and the
videos will be posted on Thursday, August 20. And we would ask the stakeholders to provide their
feedback by Monday morning, the opening of business on August 24.
And the goal would be that we compile all of that information and we have that available to you
when we come into executive session to talk about the candidates and the feedback we've been
provided so that we can use that information in that process of selecting our ultimate candidate.
Does anybody have a question? So I'm going to address critical stakeholders in a moment. That's
the general stakeholder engagement process for general stakeholders.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any questions of Gregg? I don't see any. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Mr. Ballard also had his hand up. He actually was before me, so
I'll let him speak.
PAUL BALLARD: I'll be very brief. One of the things we also talked about earlier on the staff
call was now that the Board has adopted the goals that we should share those with the candidates.

And I think that will be very helpful for them to see the Board's thinking at this point. And so that's
one of the things that we also propose to send out to them. Thank you, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Paul. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, just a question of clarity, Mr. Moser. The stakeholders, so the last time
we did this when we hired Mr. Ballard, we were able to post on social media the three candidates,
and the general public could vote, quote, unquote, "vote" for their favorite candidate and email
their feedback to a specific email account that went directly to the Board to which they compiled
all of that feedback and then presented it-- to the Board office, rather, and presented it to the Board
for review. Is that also going to be a part of the process?
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe Melanie Snyder has a comment. Is it to that point?
MELANIE SNYDER: It's not. Let's go ahead and address Director Lewis's question, and then I
can jump in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg? Or maybe Pauletta?
GREGG MOSER: So I think that the thought process is we can make this information available
on RTD's websites. I believe you have a format to send information out to stakeholders that are
RTD stakeholders. So you can send out a blast notification. I believe we can also put it on your
other social media sites. So if you use Twitter or Facebook or those sorts of things, we can make
it available through RTD's social media platforms.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, I think that-PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta, go ahead.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I'm sorry. I didn't raise my hand the right way electronically. Sorry about
that. So I'll just jump in and say that everything we do to communicate from here on out, each of
the milestones, when you narrow the field down to the three finalists, we of course will be doing
a press release. We'll be using social media. We'll put it on our website.
As it relates to the presentations of the finalists and then giving people an opportunity to weigh in,
yes, Director Lewis, as you said, we will have the photos and the bios and the resumes up there as
we did before. That was available on our website for people to at their leisure read about these
candidates. It was candidates before, and now we're talking about finalists.
The survey that Gregg was referencing will also be on the web page, just like it was for the interim
CEO. And so there will be that opportunity. The one piece that I don't think we have any answer
to at this point is whether or not there will be a direct email where people can give a subsequent
comment beyond the online survey that we're going to develop.

So again, the materials will all be on the website. People can see their photos. They can read their
bios and their resumes. But then we were going to have the online survey right there so that they
can go into the survey and give their feedback that way.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. That's helpful. The survey, it feels sufficient. It was more of, if a
constituent asks me how they might participate, what am I as a director sharing with them for them
to learn more about the candidates?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Great. No, that's excellent, because it gives me an
opportunity to stay-- and in alignment with what Gregg said-- we will blast this out in many ways.
We have a very large stakeholder distribution list that we send out our periodic newsletters to. It's
thousands of people. It's every elected official in the region. It's key stakeholders, business leaders,
the TMOs, TMAs, and others. So it will be going out through that.
But then also, we'll be able to share info with you guys that you'll be able to share to other
constituents that you want. And again, blast it out in social media, do a news release so that people
are aware of this opportunity. If they aren't able to watch the videos for whatever reason, but they
want to read the bio and see the picture and then do the survey, they're free to do that as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And my last question, Chair Catlin, will the materials be
translated into other languages?
PEGGY CATLIN: Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, typically everything we do-- so the survey will be in Spanish as
well as English, just like what we've been doing with all of our surveys. So that will happen. And
the material will be available. And actually, on our website, we have the feature where people can
translate it into a number of different languages. And so as it relates to the website, that's a great
tool.
But we will do the online survey in English and Spanish. And then if there's any actual brochure
or flyer or anything that we do to support the process, that would be in English and Spanish as
well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. What about their presentations?
PAULETTA TONILAS: The presentations, we would not translate those into various languages.
I would say, yeah, we didn't really talk about that in terms of the actual video. It will be accessible.
We'll make those accessible in terms of what we do with our videos. But we wouldn't be translating
those video clips of their presentations in other languages.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. If we might think about-- I'm just thinking about from an accessibility
standpoint. And if we are wanting folks to make an informed decision, if we offer the survey in
English and Spanish but the presentations in only English, it might be a barrier to accessing those
documents for folks who might not speak English as a first language. And so we might just look
into if it's possible to do so.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. I'll talk to my team about that and we'll see. Because again, the
files will be ADA accessible. But as far as various languages, that's what we'll have to look into.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much, Pauletta. Those are all my questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. In the queue, I see Chair Rivera-Malpiede Eddie wants to speak.
But we also have Melanie Snyder. And then Paul Ballard, you still have your hands raised, virtual
hand raised. Did you have something else to add?
PAUL BALLARD: Nope.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Melanie first, and then Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. So I just wanted to clarify our process with respect to what
we're going to be recording and when we're recording it and what we're making available, because
I thought-- and Gregg, maybe you misspoke-- but my understanding is that the plan is to only
record this presentation, not the actual interview process. Is that right? OK.
And then for open meeting purposes, I think that I have some concerns about recording those
presentations in executive session and then making them available to the public. If they're going
to be made available to the public, they probably shouldn't be done in executive session.
So you might just think about actually even having those recorded separately ahead of time, and
then the directors could take a look at them at their convenience, and then you would just do the
interview portion in executive session. So that's just something to think about. Does that make
sense?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Hey, Gregg? Do you want to float the idea of the other option that
we had, that we'd talked about yesterday that is kind of sort in alignment with what Melanie is
saying as an option? That we are amendable to doing whichever works best, but that might answer
some questions in that regard.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I think what's suggested is these are done outside of the executive session
interview. So I guess there's really two options. One option adds a little bit more burden to
everybody. It kind of requires another series of time commitments.
So for the candidates, we'd have to have them scheduled for another time to do a video recording.
And for the directors, the directors would have to block off more time to be available to watch
their presentation. It just wouldn't feel right to the candidates to have a candidate get on with one
director to give a presentation to. So there was a discussion about possibly doing that the Monday
before the final round of interviews.
I suppose the other process is to do it on that Wednesday and Thursday. During the final round of
interviews to do their presentation not in the executive session interview, but to do it prior to going
into executive session in a video format, I guess.

You know, the downside to that that we ran into, the trouble, Melanie, what we were talking about
was if it's not in executive session, the other candidates can watch their interview. And then the
first person's most disadvantaged, because the third person gets to hear everything they've said and
then be able to provide any kind of insight and use what they said also.
So by doing an executive session, it controls the audience, and then we can put it out there. So I
don't know if we could do two executive sessions, one executive session for their interview, close
that one out, and go into a separate executive session for the question and answer portion of it, or
something like that to control the ability for the other candidates to hear their presentation.
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. And I think that's a good point as to fairness, for sure. My concern
is that if you're trying to preserve the confidentiality of this communication in executive session,
then that's one thing. But if you've decided it's actually going to be made available to the public, I
think it gets really hard to justify that you're doing that in executive session in the first place. Do
you see what I'm saying?
So I don't think it helps to have two separate executive sessions. The concern is recording in
executive session these presentations with the understanding that you're going to make them
available immediately to the public. It just doesn't feel like a legitimate basis to be in executive
session then, just for that presentation is what I'm saying.
PEGGY CATLIN: Even though it preserves the confidentiality of the candidates and speaks to the
fairness of candidates playing from the same playing field? Or on the same playing field?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. And I think that's a good point. I mean, I can do some checking. I
doubt that there's going to be case law on whether a personnel matter is a personnel matter and
then ceases to be a personnel matter because of a timing issue. That's really the basis that you're in
executive session for doing these interviews.
So I think it would be safer if you could record them separately. And maybe they're not doing it
live in front of each other where everyone can look. And that might actually be more-- the
candidates might actually like that better if they're just having the opportunity to record and do
their best and maybe not necessarily have to do that live and have it recorded. But have it recorded
separately and then you all watch it at a certain point, but not in executive session if you're planning
to make those public.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, do you want to speak to that?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I suppose one thing we could do-- and we could pick who it is. Maybe
it's myself and Paul Ballard. Maybe it's myself, Paul Ballard, and Director Catlin or the chair. But
maybe we get out on a video call with the candidates and record the presentations, so it's not a
public meeting.

And then we make those available so the other candidates can't join in or participate in it. And we
make those available, and we just do those ahead of time. We don't commit all of your schedules
to this because it's burdensome, and then we'd have to have a public session by having so many
members together at one time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie, do you want to speak to that.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, that would address my concerns. I mean, the reality is-- and I don't
even know that-- I know it could be a little artificial to have someone doing a presentation to no
audience, but that's also an option to just have them record their presentation for you all to view
later.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that might be something we should look into. In the queue is Chair
Rivera-Malpiede, then Director Buzek, and then-- I saw another hand, but maybe [AUDIO OUT]
Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is actually a really great
conversation. And I too am always concerned about anything that we send out to the community
at large is at least bilingual.
But the other part that I'd like to make sure is as we're doing outreach, Pauletta, we have all the
emails of the people who did submit comments last time for Mr. Ballard when he was being hired.
And I want to make sure that they're included in the outreach stuff that we send out, because I want
them to know there's another piece going on now, and I want to get their voice on it.
PAULETTA TONILAS: OK. Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. And I think Gregg's going to speak to some of our special
stakeholders in a minute. But in the meantime, Director Buz-- or, did that answer your questions,
Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks. I'm kind of confused. The video presentation by the candidates
is in fact a response to a question, isn't it? What's your view of RTD one, three, and five years. So
how is that interview question treated differently than every other interview question that takes
place in executive session? Is it a function of the intent to later publish the response? I guess I want
to just clarify that. Thanks.
MELANIE SNYDER: That's the issue. I don't know if you could hear me, but that is the issue, that
if you are knowing that you're going to make that immediately public, is that really a basis for
executive session? And if you really have no attempt of keeping that piece confidential.
VINCE BUZEK: Got It. OK, thanks.

PEGGY CATLIN: Great. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your digital hand is still raised. Did you have
another follow-up question? Are you on mute? I think I'll just move on. Gregg, would you talk a
little bit about the-- I say, quote, "special" stakeholder outreach? And by that, I mean those people
that we asked him to reach out to prior to the selection. Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: So back at the beginning of the process, you may remember when we were
drafting the position description that we asked that specific stakeholders be reached out to
individually. And I collected a list of stakeholders that you provided that you asked me to reach
out to. And I got, I'd say, at least a 50% response rate back from those stakeholders providing
input.
That group of stakeholders, what our thought was was to have the exact same process we just
described a moment ago, but also provide in that survey that we provide an open-ended question
that allowed them to provide feedback as to the strengths, what they saw as strengths of the
candidates, or what they had as concerns and things like that as to the candidates. And so that
allowed them the opportunity to provide us some direct feedback so you could see from those
individuals what their thoughts were.
I just want to reiterate on all of this, whether it's those stakeholders or the broader stakeholder
audience, timing is really short for all of this. If we do this and post these, at most, depending on
when we actually record these videos and make them available, the opportunity to get feedback is
going to be a matter of somewhere between four and six days, most likely.
So as soon as we make the announcement of our finalist candidates, we'll notify all stakeholders
to be on the lookout for this and the timing at which it's going to come out so that they're aware.
And then we're going to notify them again when it actually comes out, and notify them that they
have, again, somewhere between four and six days to review these and provide their input.
Otherwise, we have to [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any questions? Somebody has a motorcycle or something in the
background.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick comment that there may be some-- for instance, some of the
Accountability Committee people that we would want to reach out to as the other stakeholder
group.
PEGGY CATLIN: And actually, we talked about that earlier today. Director Guissinger will want
to make sure that at least the chair of that committee be notified that this would be made available
for them to provide input. So that's a good comment.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, this is Shelley Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: This is already a topic we've covered, but that same thought, a stakeholder
chamber of commerce executive or somebody might be a good contact for reference checks too. I
don't know if Gregg has done that or would consider that, but just a thought.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other comments about this outreach process? I just
want to check with the Board. Given Melanie Snyder's concern about making these videos
available to the public and concern about seeing them in executive session, is it all right with the
Board if Gregg Moser and Paul Ballard and Director Guissinger and I participate in those
recordings of those interviews so as to avoid a public meeting, and then making those tapes
available to individual directors?
Is there any objection to that? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't have an objective. Of course, I have a process question. I just want to
know the timing of when those videos would be downloaded and provided to directors for review
in time for us to be able to use that to evaluate candidates for our discussion to select finalists.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. If I might [AUDIO OUT] first, and then let Gregg Moser-- since this just
was posed as an idea in this meeting, we have not sorted that out yet. But we can get an answer
back to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So before I make a decision, I'd like to know that first.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: So Director Lewis, if I understood your question correctly, these videos would
not be recorded before finalists are identified. These videos would be of the three finalists. So they
will be made available to you and the entire stakeholder group most likely prior to their actual
executive session interview with you. And they will be available and stay available until what I'm
thinking is Monday the 24th, Monday morning, the 24th. So at most, if we could do these the
Monday before, we'd have them available for maybe six to seven days.
Depending on availability of all these calendars of the people that were just talked about maybe
being involved-- Director Guissinger, Director Catlin, myself, Paul Ballard, and our three finalists- we might have to do it on Tuesday or maybe even Wednesday, and that would just shorten the
amount of time. But I wouldn't recommend we do it any later than Wednesday. I'd recommend we
do it sooner than later, because it just makes it available for that much longer. But again, just to be
clear, these are only the three finalists, not the entire sixth group.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. No, I did understand that. Thank you for the clarity, Mr. Moser. And
that does make sense. It was more of a timing-- so I asked about processes. I wanted to know how
much advance time we would have to be able to review them to utilize those for the discussion in
our evaluation. So that was very helpful, so thank you for that detail.
GREGG MOSER: You're welcome.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. And in alignment with what Director Lewis was saying and
what I just wanted to get on everybody's radar, because it might be like, oh, OK, yeah, if those
videos are taped beforehand by the group that was explained and we get those up on the website,
whether it's the Monday or the Wednesday or whatever, those also would be available to the Board
members to review prior to the actual finalist interviews.
So you're not going to have them then repeat those in the finalist interviews, right? Those are going
to be available for the Board members to review beforehand so when you get into the interview,
it's just, you guys don't have to repeat that, I guess is what I'm saying, right? And then to Director
Lewis's point, they're available to the Board as soon as we can get those downloaded and they're
available to everybody.
I believe that to be true. And I guess the candidates would need to know that, that those videos
would be in the public domain prior to them actually interviewing. I have some concerns about
that, because I mean, I would like the Board members to be able to view them.
But since it would not be a public meeting if we limited it to just two directors, could we not wait
until after they've had a chance to interview? Because I think that the candidates themselves can
view the other two candidates' interviews prior to the executive session where we conduct the
questions and answer.
Your thoughts about that, Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I don't have a lot of thoughts. I mean, I think that you raise a valid point.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is Melanie still available?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, I'm here. But what we're talking about, just to be clear, is that the
candidates would record their presentations in advance of their interviews, right? And then those
would be posted. So all of the candidates would be able to see all of the presentations before their
interviews.
PEGGY CATLIN: At the same time.
MELANIE SNYDER: At the same time. Not that anyone would get to see-- no one would be
disadvantaged, because all of the interviews would be posted at the same time. That's what I'm
understanding for the process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is it necessary to publicly post them prior to their interviews, is what I'm
asking?
MELANIE SNYDER: No. There's not a legal reason that you'd have to do that.
GREGG MOSER: We could do it right after.

PEGGY CATLIN: My suggestion is that they'd be made available to the Board prior to the actual
interviews, to the Board only. And then after the interviews, as planned, then we can have those
available to the general public. Would there be a problem with that [AUDIO OUT]?
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff Walker.
PEGGY CATLIN: Jeff? Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes, thanks. One of the criticisms that this Board or this agency has gotten is
lack of transparency. If it's public, it's public. So I would rather have everybody, stakeholders,
Board members, just as we're stakeholders, have access to those at the same time, whether or not
we can avail ourselves to schedule or to watch [SIDE CONVERSATIONS] is a different issue.
But the opportunity is there.
So I think in order to get rid of that criticism or at least to knock it down a notch would be to open
it up to the world at the same time for everybody without any preference to the Board. I don't see
any benefit for me to know 10 minutes before any of my constituents. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Any other comments about that? Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thanks very much, Chair. The only thing I was going to say is that by
posting those videos in the public realm before the interviews is really just very similar to what's
been done in the past with the forum that was held at the big room where all three of them were
able to then give their vision, and that was all before the interviews. And so this is similar to that.
That's all I was going to say, is that it follows that same process.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you for that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Gregg? Excuse me. This is Barbara McManus. Is that the right timing?
I thought that the in-person forums happened-- we did all the comment cards, we collected the
comment cards, we got them to the directors the following day, and then didn't we go to a vote?
GREGG MOSER: We had the-- yeah, we did, actually. So I think we interview the candidates in
the morning in executive session. Then that afternoon and evening, we had stakeholder
engagement. The next morning, we provided all the feedback in executive session, and we
deliberated amongst the directors as to which candidate was going to be selected. And then we
came out in public session and took a formal vote.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
GREGG MOSER: But if we wanted, the suggestion was to make it that all directors and the public
saw them all at the same times. The last interview is going to conclude-- and I don't have my
calendar sitting on in front of me as we're talking through this-- but the last interview will conclude
on Thursday, August 20, around lunchtime. So we could post the videos at that time. The directors
could see them and the public could see them. There will be a four-day period. Thursday, half a
day, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday morning. So a little less than four days for everybody.

That's longer than we had last time. Last time, again, with the big, open room, if you didn't come,
you weren't able to provide feedback, because we had those comment cards, and the comment
cards were due at the time you left the forum that night. So this actually is more inclusive and
provides a longer period of time for the public to provide input.
PEGGY CATLIN: So you're suggesting then that it's after the executive session interviews that
we would make them available.
GREGG MOSER: Right. We'll record them ahead of time. Pauletta and her team will make sure
they're ready to go and the technology's proper on the website. They'll make it go live on Thursday
when that last interview concludes.
PEGGY CATLIN: But when will Board members be able to view them?
GREGG MOSER: At that time. At that time, they'll be able to view them just like everybody else
on the RTD website. We're not going to decide any candidates until we come back together on
Monday the 24. So no decisions. Nobody has to make any decisions on what's the preferred
candidate.
You'll have four days to sleep on the executive session interviews. All the references, all the
background check information, and these video interviews, these video presentations. And then
we'll come back and go into an executive session on the 24th or 25th to discuss all the feedback
we receive from the stakeholders and deliberate.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So the Board members will not have benefit of that video prior to the
actual finalist interviews?
GREGG MOSER: If we follow that process, which is that the stakeholders and the Board get them
all at the same time.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
GREGG MOSER: The advantage of seeing them ahead of time is you could ask questions about
their presentation during the interview. You won't be able to do that once they're-- they'll be back
doing what they're doing. You won't have an opportunity follow up with them. If we recorded
them on a Monday or Tuesday and you were able to view them before the executive session
interviews, you could say, I didn't understand what you meant by this. Could you please clarify
what you meant during your presentation?
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Board members. Anybody have any preferences?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think there's value in that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think-- value in seeing it ahead of time?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.

VINCE BUZEK: I agree. Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. But with not making it available to the public until after the interviews?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I mean, I'll defer to others in terms of how we have to do the process,
but I think there's value in us seeing it before we interview our final chance.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I agree with Director Guissinger.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any other Board members want to weigh in? Barbara McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we could do this in the same way that we do-- that Gregg Federson
spoke to us about. John and I, of course, will have to test that, and we'll be doing that ASAP. But
I think the directors-- I think there's value in the directors seeing the videos prior to the interviews.
It could change how the questions are asked on both sides. I think there is value. And now that we
have a solution to be able to do that, we might as well use it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. McManus. I'm going to go through the Board members,
because we have actually two opinions on this, one being Director Walker and the other, Directors
Buzek and Guissinger. So I think I'll ask the other Board members their thoughts. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. I had a question, so my hand was raised and I totally forgot what my
question was, so I do apologize.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was just going to say, with regard to previewing the videos prior to the
executive session question and answer period, or as Director Walker suggests, making those videos
available to Board members and the public at the same time prior to those interviews.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, yeah. So that was actually my question. And this will help me decide,
because I do think Director Walker has a really good point about the transparency piece, and we
do get criticized quite a bit. But my question is, will we be able in the actual interviews to ask
questions about the presentations?
PEGGY CATLIN: As we formulate the questions, I think that we can develop questions regarding
the presentations. Gregg, your thoughts on that?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. And Melanie, I'll ask you this question. I think there should be a little bit
more flexibility to the second round of interviews to get into some deeper, more substantive issues.
I mean, this is your GM CEO. This is the single most important decision you're going to make.

And if we scrub this so clean and so sterile that you don't really get into the core issues, then you're
not really doing what your fiduciary responsibility is, in my opinion.
We need to keep it professional and we need to keep it within the guidelines of what legal will
allow us to ask the proper questions and things. But I think that this is something where you want
to have that flexibility to see these presentations.
One perspective on this idea of the public and the Board seeing it at the same time, by recording
them ahead of time and doing this not in a public session, you're limiting the third candidate's
ability to watch the first two and then be able to modify and adjust. If you make them public for
the stakeholders to see ahead of your interviews, all of those candidates can recalibrate and prepare
their responses to your interview questions in the closed session interviews based on what they
heard the other candidates say to try to level the playing field and get what might be a competitive
advantage over another candidate.
So there might be a reason why you'd want to keep it to just the directors for that short period of
time before those interviews so that those other candidates can't see each other's presentations to
try to use that information that another candidate said that they didn't say to strengthen their
conversation with you in that executive session.
PEGGY CATLIN: Melanie, your thoughts on that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. Again, I don't think it's an open meetings issue or a legal issue. I
mean, I guess I'm kind of agreeing with Pauletta in the sense that not the timing issue, but it would
be just like having an open stakeholder forum where you are in person and the candidates can give
their presentations and interact with people.
So I think to me, it's just sort of a different format. As long as you're posting all three of the videos
at the same time and no applicant's getting an advantage in having others being posted first, I'm
not seeing a legal issue with it.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I just think that the fairness to the candidates, as Gregg suggests, of
recalibrate, we might get a slightly different picture. Director Buzek, did you have your hand up?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't think I did. I don't think so. My comments remain the same. I'd like the
directors to see it for a short time frame before the interviews and then post it to the public right
after we've seen them or after the interviews, actually. I think that makes the most sense. I agree
with Gregg that it gives an unfair advantage to some of the candidates to post them ahead of time.
Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Cook, your thoughts?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, I thought Gregg's suggestion made sense. I was persuaded by
what he said and you have said, so I agree with you.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Directors Lewis and Guissinger already weighed in. Chair RiveraMalpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also agree with Gregg. I think it
makes a lot of sense so that we could really get a clearer idea of how these candidates are answering
their questions before we send it out. So I agree with that process.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. With all due respect and deference to
Director Walker, I tend to agree with what Gregg Moser has said, that you give an opportunity to
candidates to retool and speak sort of magic words that they think resonated with the people who
actually did the interview during that initial presentation. So I'm not a fan of that.
Although I will say for the sake of the record, it would be interesting, because someone who can
adjust that quickly and change their presentation may be a quick study and may be somebody we
want to look at. But on balance, I would be opposed to their having the opportunity to see it before
we do those interviews. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Dr. Tisdale. Finally, on the phone, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I will agree. To me, it'd be candidate A, or rather, candidate C picking the
best of-- and I could see where they could easily adapt-- but picking the best of from all of the
others. And so I am fine with this timeline, but I sure would like to get a good visual on where our
picture stands at now on this timeline. So Gregg, are you going to be able to modify up this timeline
relatively quickly, get that back to us? Because I'm just worried I may have missed something.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I will work on this this evening and first thing tomorrow morning. And
since I have the luxury of being a couple hours ahead of you, you'll have it tomorrow morning to
review all of what we've discussed and the timeline of how this would look.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm going to go to Barbara McManus. But we don't have a
unanimous preference here, but I think we do have a preference to have the videos made available
to the Board prior to the executive session interviews followed by releasing them to the public
immediately thereafter. So I think we had a majority of the participants in this call believe that. So
Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Oh.
PEGGY CATLIN: You just agree with [AUDIO OUT]?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. I am agreeing with you. I think that Gregg will finish the timeline,
and then we have the correction to the one other document and the list of questions.

And I think, Director Catlin, you're still planning on putting together an email overview of this
meeting, and we can attach some of the decisions that were made. And then we can attach those
three corrected documents with it to substantiate what we've discussed today for the directors that
weren't able to be on the call, and go from there. See what comments we get.
PEGGY CATLIN: I will probably work with you on that in the morning. I've got a few other
commitments.
Are there any other comments that directors have, or anyone else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So we've got the general manager executive search committee, and
we're going to be voting at a certain stage. So as I'm looking at the timeline now, we've got our
head nods during certain periods, and then we have the vote no later than August 25. We also have
those who are not on the GMESC, and they're also going to have access to those videos. So pretty
much, what it was stating up to this was if a non-committee member participated in the interviews
which then changed to, are you able to watch the videos, the recording, and listen to it, they would
also be able to weigh in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: But what is still in this plan is that just the GMESC is voting?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. Any Board member who has participated fully will be voting when we exit
the executive session.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'm glad to have that cleared up, because I think we were on a different
path up until today. Would that be correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: But that's because it was not clear in the charter. We asked for some
recommendations from our legal counsel. Director Guissinger and I worked with Melanie, and that
was the recommendation, to be more inclusive of the Board since the charter was actually silent
on when Board members would weigh in.
And because, as Director Guissinger pointed out, if just the committee were to weigh in and
through the selection process, perhaps there were four that had a preference for some and three
that had a preference for others, there would be, in fact, four Board members that would be
speaking on behalf of 15. And in fact, this was such an important decision we wanted to be more
inclusive of all the Board members. Director Guissinger, did I capture that correctly?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You did.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm glad to have that clarification. This is Menten.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. Any other questions? I see two hands raised, or three hands
raised. I see Director Buzek, I see Gregg Moser, and Barbara McManus. Are those intentional or- OK.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
[LAUGH]
And I sincerely apologize that this meeting has gone on an hour and six minutes longer than
scheduled, and I appreciate every one of you for your patience and understanding. And I'd like to
entertain a motion to adjourn.
JUDY LUBOW: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Anyone opposed? Have a nice dinner, everybody.
Thank you all.

