Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, April 3, 2007
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 3, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, April 3, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

Please Note:

Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meets the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Committee Chair: Director Chacon; Chairperson Martinez, Director
Busck, Director Brohl, Director Christopher, Director Daly, Director
Kemp, Director Kinton, Director McMullen, Director Pulliam, Director
Quinlan, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick

Member Absent:

Director Elfenbein

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Marla Lien,
Lloyd Mack Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Call to Order:
I.

Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Dennis Cole , Kevin Diviness, Carol
Duecker , Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova ,Manny Herrera, Jennifer
Heisler, Brian Iacono, Caitlin Magee, Robert Merriman, Richard
Morton, Jerry Nery, Daria Serna, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Bill
Sirois, Joe Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Errol Stevens, Stan Szabelak,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Liz Telford
Kevin Flynn, Jeff Lieb, L.W. Morrow, Roger Sherman, Holman Carter,
Bob Kochevar, Maria Garcia-Berry, Lara Aldrete, Diane Barrett, Steve
Burkholder, Carolyn Siegel, George Schuernstuhl, Mike Falcone, Dave
Moore, Patrick Clark, Luke O’Kelley, Tamara Door, Ellen Ittelson, Jim
Graebner, Dominic Dibrito, John Gustafson, Jon Esty, Mike Rowe,
Arthur Rader, Eric Anderson, Fabby Hillyard, Walter Isenberg,
Catherine Cox-Blair, Steve Roberts, David Cole, Larry Gibson
****
Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:01 p.m.

Drainage Strategy

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, April 3, 2007
Page 2 of 4
John Shonsey provided a presentation on Drainage for FasTracks Corridors
which included the requirements and drainage criteria as used by the UDFCD
and can vary by city. He provided examples of current drainage challenges in
the West Corridor and discussed the efforts being taken by RTD to partner with
the respective agencies and municipalities. RTD’s position is RTD will not
design a rail corridor to a standard less than what the agencies require and in
most cases, will design for greater events when possible or cost effective. The
design will permit rail service to resume after any major event that may overtop
the tracks without damage to the tracks or rail infrastructure. RTD will do not
harm to the community or the surrounding areas due to its drainage design for
either the corridor or the facilities proposed in the FasTracks Plan. For more
information on this drainage strategy, please refer to the handout in the
FasTracks Minutes book or the Drainage presentation posted on the Board
website.
Several questions and concerns were expressed by the Directors including:
Director McMullen: needs to understand what the 100 years mean and how do
we go from 100 years to 5 years. Cal Marsella explained the criteria as a
design and protect.
Director Christopher: The design will meet the criteria that it would not have to
stop operations on a 5 year event in the event of a flood or other disaster. John
Shonsey indicated we would not have to stop operations for a 5 year flood
design.
Director Busck: The concern has been expressed if we will be a good neighbor
and will protect our neighbors downstream from us and vice-versa. We need to
send out a message to this effect to our neighbors. Director Christopher
reiterated this concern. Cal Marsella indicated we are meeting with the
municipalities, agencies, etc to address this specific concern.
Director Kemp: In those municipalities where we have cleaned up the drainage,
would like some assurance (i.e. agreement with the municipalities) that the
municipalities will assume responsibility for any future drainage work that might
be required.
Director Ruchman: What was the budget line item for drainage as approved by
the public? Liz Rao indicated that the budget had allocated $35M but we are
now saving $10M. Have we obtained agreement from Denver, Lakewood,
JeffCO, etc. that there will be no further degradation on this drainage? Liz
responded this is pending.
Chair Martinez: As the Board entertains questions from other municipalities,
agencies or constituents, it is important that we share what we are learning on
the steps being taken by RTD in regard to these issues and that the Board is
included early in the process. Cal Marsella indicated one of the intents of the
handout is to equip the Directors with information that can be shared and
anticipates many of the questions from other corridors.
Director McMullen: Director McMullen offered a clarification to John Shonsey’s
statement earlier that the design would not have to stop operations for a five
year period. Director McMullen amended this to say should not have to stop
operations for a five year period.
Cal Marsella accepted this
amendment/correction.
II.

DUS Presentation
In the interest of the attendees and participants, Director Chacon requested that
the DUS Presentation get moved up in the agenda.
Cal Marsella introduced Eric Anderson who presented a team of partners with
the Denver Union Station. These partners included RTD, City and County of
Denver, CDOT, DRCOG, and USNC.
Several representatives from these
organizations shared their perspective on the DUS revisions in the proposal

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, April 3, 2007
Page 3 of 4
while emphasizing that the Master Plan has remained the same but the strategy
for implementation has been improved. A prototype model of the proposed
change was provided.
George Schuernstuhl-DRCOG-Regional Importance
Mark Falcone-Union Station Neighborhood Vision
George Gerstle,CDOT-Shared multimodal importance /development to support
transit
Shannon Gifford, Co-chair USAC-USAC and Public Involvement Process
Eric Anderson,P/B (project manager)-Master Plan process/Principles
Frank Cannon, Union Station Neighborhood-Address Changes in Proposal
Mike Reininger, Union Station Neighborhood-USNC Proposal
Peter Park, Planning Director, City and County of Denver-Provided vision and
city building
Steve Burkholder-Mayor of Lakewood
Proposed revisions and improvements to the DUS include:
 Rotated RTD Regional bus to 17th Street axis
 2 track/2 platform modification to LRT
 Improved shuttle/circulator loops
For a copy of the Denver Union Station Presentation, please refer to the
document in the FasTracks Monitoring Minutes Notebook or refer to the
presentation on the Board website.
Director Chacon allowed public comments from the Friends of Transit who were
allowed to provide their opposing perspective:
Jon Esty, Colorado Rail Passenger Association, who described his organization
as composed of transit junkies, provided a sheet with several questions
regarding the Union Station Plan. For a copy of these questions, please refer to
the FasTracks Monitoring Minutes Notebook. John expressed concerns in two
areas: (1) Distance between the Light Rail and the rest of DUS—lengthy
transfers could discourage ridership
(2) Flexibility of the design-It is anticipated that we will experience growth in
computer rail over the next few years. The design buries the commuter rail
underground and locks it in so that it cannot be expanded and does not speak to
the need of the growing metropolitan area.
Mike Rowe, Boulder based Citizens for Commuter Rail, expressed concerns on
the operational and expansion issues that the underground design for commuter
rail would create. Mr. Rowe stated this is a Colorado project, not a Denver
project, and needs to stay focused on the big picture which would be inclusive
of all transportation needs. The proposed plan short changes this big picture. He
asked the question, “Are we in the development or the transit business?”
Development should follow, not lead.
Cal Marsella acknowledged the concern of through traffic capability and how
coming underground provides a problem for commuter rail. However, Cal
provided a perspective of how he sees the connection of the commuter rail
capabilities being expanded through CML. He expressed he felt the DUS
proposal opened up LRT access to the river and other newly developed dense
neighborhoods being created as well as opened up the 16th street mall and
optimized the mobility component in the region while addressing the
quintessential public, public and private partnership.
Steve Burkholder, Mayor of Lakewood, endorsed the efforts of the USNC,

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, April 3, 2007
Page 4 of 4
particularly Continuum Partners, who had completed successful projects in
Lakewood. Mayor Burkholder expressed he felt the DUS plan embedded the
principles of transportation, development and place and this was a financially
sound proposal.
Some of the Directors (Kemp. McMullen, Busck) shared their support of the
proposed plan and emphasized that this is really a combination of placing equal
importance to transportation and development needs to fit the community 1020 years from now.
Director Pulliam expressed concern that what he heard was a 80% development
and 20% transit focused project which could create a bottleneck in our design.
He would like to see more focus on the transit needs, not development.
Several other Directors (Kinton, Martinez, Yamrick, Christopher, Brohl)
expressed concerns or had questions on the traffic circulation, inclusion of all
bus components including the independent operators, evolution of the “transit
district concept”, and issues on the time to walk the distance from the CML to
the LRT. A major concern expressed by the Directors and Friends of Transit
was the lack of flexibility for the commuter rail growth or the precluding for
future use of the available technology such as Double Decker DMUs.

Director Chacon requested a follow-up from RTD on the questions provide by
Jon Esty.
III.

Double Decker DMUs for FasTracks Corridors
Rick Clarke provided a high level technology view of the Double Decker DMU
including issues with size and height that may preclude using it in the proposed
DUS design. Some of the impacts identified were the height could raise costs in
the underground station and the need to pass under 18th St. and over 20th St.
could result in unacceptable grades for this vehicle. For more information on
the Double Deck DMU presentation, please refer to the FasTracks Minutes
Notebook or see a copy on the Board website.
Issues/Concerns expressed by the Directors included:
Director Christopher: If RTD does not design and build the DUS tunnel to
accommodate Double Decker DMU, we will have given up our future flexibility
for 100 years or longer.
Director Kinton: We will be making a significant mistake to preclude ourselves
from Colorado Rail Car DMU technology.
Director Yamrick: She agrees with the concerns expressed by Christopher,
Kinton and perhaps Pulliam.
Director Busck: He needs to see an analysis on the staff’s statement that the
cost savings on DMU Double Decker will be exceeded with other infrastructure
costs i.e. bridges, DUS tunnel etc. Cal agreed to provide this cost differential.

II.

Other Matters –

III.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
will be May 1, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

IV.

Adjournment – Director Chacon adjourned the meeting at 7:35 p.m.

