Sep 18 2018 0530 PM Board of Directors
Board Meeting
GIRL SCOUTS: For which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice
for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, ladies. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
Ladies and gentlemen, there is definitely good hope for our future. We want to thank, especially,
Jillian Knapp Rhodes, our RTD special events coordinator, for organizing this excursion. And a
huge thanks to the parents of these outstanding, young ladies for taking the time to allow them to
lead us in their pledge.
Before we call the roll, I do want to point out that today, at sunset, in about an hour and a half,
we begin Yom Kippur, the holiest day in the Jewish calendar, and we wish you a good holiday to
all of our friends who are celebrating Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement. And to them we say
[SPEAKING HEBREW] may they be written in the Book of Life. Ms. McManus, would you
please call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Archuleta.
BONNIE "ERNEST" ARCHULETA: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Deadwyler.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sisk.
CHARLES L. SISK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Salona.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm here also.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. We appreciate that. Ladies and
gentlemen, I'm going to begin with a safety briefing. At RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to
begin this meeting with this short safety briefing. I want to advise you that if we have a medical
emergency and 911 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD general counsel to make that
telephone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist.
If needed, an Automatic Emergency Defibrillator, an AED device, is in a glass case, located just
outside this room on the wall to the right. In the event we must evacuate the building for fire or
any other emergency, please calmly exit out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up
the stairs to the first floor, around the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and

security officers will be there to direct you to a safe meet up area. Anyone needing special
assistance in the event of an evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
On a related safety note, please understand that while RTD takes every precaution to ensure the
security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general
public to be aware of, and alert, too, any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains,
and around our stations, our stops, and our platforms.
As such, we encourage all our employees and all of our patrons to download the RTD Transit
Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate
directly with our transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of any emergency
situation. The Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and also the Apple App Store.
Thank you.
Our first agenda item of substance this evening is our retiree awards. And we are honored to be
joined tonight by retiree Shirley Bennett. As I noted during last month's Board meeting, Shirley
has been with the RTD for 39 years. To put this monumental accomplishment in perspective,
RTD was created by the legislature in 1969.
Shirley began her long and illustrious career here a mere 10 years after that. So at this time, I
would call upon our assistant general manager, Mike Meader, to please come to the lectern to
introduce our most esteemed retiree. Mr. Meader, the floor is yours, sir.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. It is absolutely my honor to introduce Shirley
Bennett one more time here. Shirley is that rare individual that blesses the lives of everyone she
comes in contact with. I'm sure everyone would agree with me, and it's very possible that
everyone in this room, over her 39 years here, that, at some point in time, had come in contact
with Shirley. She's compassionate yet firm. She can read you the Ride Act and you walk away
feeling good about yourself. It's pretty amazing.
She's got more safety knowledge than I think most will ever have. And yet she never makes you
feel that way. There are countless times I've walked into her office to get some advice, not really
sure what to do. And I walk out of there thinking, wow, I really did a good job solving that
problem, until I get back to my office and realize, wait a minute, that was Shirley's idea. So she's
quite the person. We've been honored to have her here.
She tirelessly, as you said, guided RTD for 39 years to an astounding safety record, and then
gracefully walked away into retirement, where she certainly is tirelessly going to be traveling the
world, enriching the lives of the people that she comes in contact with in the community and
church and around the world. I know she's been to about four or five places already here around
Orlando, Miami; Branson, Missouri; Alaska; and she's planning a trip to Germany here in the not
too distant future. So she's not going to be sitting back, for sure.
I'm sure she'll share some of those things with you. I'm honored and blessed to call her a
colleague and a friend. I'm going to ask Dave to come up. I've known Shirley for two years.

Dave's worked with her for decades, so I'm going to ask Dave to say a few words. But before we
give Shirley the floor, Shirley, thank you, and God bless.
[APPLAUSE]
DAVE GENOVA: We'll get through this together, OK? All right. Well, as Mike said, so I've
known Shirley for about 25 years. And so 21 of those years, I was Shirley's direct supervisor. So
we have quite a history. I could tell you lots and lots of stories, but I'll just tell you a few. Mike
touched on her commitment. 24-hour call all these years, responding to phone calls of accidents,
injuries. Anything that needed to be investigated, Shirley was always there.
We also have a requirement on certain kinds of things, that they have to be reported within a
two-hour time frame. So that just means you have to be on top of it, have your information. You
get calls at church, calls at night, calls all the time, right Shirley? And Phantom of the Opera one
night. She has incredible compassion, an incredible heart. And when she's not here at RTD, she's
usually out working and serving seniors of all kinds. And so she's heavily committed to the
community, has done a lot of great work.
Everyone within RTD knows her. So we think about all the operators and the maintainers that we
have throughout the entire organization, they all know Shirley. And surely fondly refers to all of
them as her children. And I hope I'm not taking some of your material, Shirley, but we talk about
that a lot.
So safety is in Shirley's blood. She grew up in the Appalachian area, where the industry was coal
mining. Her family was in coal mine, and that's what inspired Shirley's passion to get engaged
and involved in safety. She has a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in industrial safety, and
then came to us in 1979. Many, many contributions to us here at RTD.
And I will just say that we're going to miss you a lot, Shirley, but I just have to say one thing.
One of Shirley's phrases that I just really came to enjoy is that if people couldn't get an answer
somewhere, they always said, this is a safety issue. I'm going to go talk to Shirley. And as Mike
alluded to earlier, you always leave feeling good after you talk to Shirley. But one of her favorite
phrases was, you know, this is not Burger King. You cannot always have it your way.
[LAUGHS]
Shirley, do you have a few words? Would you like to speak?
[APPLAUSE]
SHIRLEY BENNETT: First of all, I want to just say thank you. Very simply, just thank you to
the Board, the Board chair, to all my family and friends and coworkers and my work family, the
great team that I've worked with over the years. It's been marvelous. Deciding to retire was a
difficult decision, but in everybody's life, that time and season comes. And I want to leave while
I still have life and energy to do some of the things that I choose to do in life.

And several people have said, why are you leaving? Why are you leaving? This chapter of this
book on my life is closing. I'm not starting a new book, I'm writing my own book in the future.
That's what I'm going to do.
[APPLAUSE]
And I've laughed with the security people. I said, at least you guys didn't have to carry me out
here with one supervisor-- one police officer on each side. You didn't have to carry me out of
here on a stretcher. I was empowered to make the decision myself. And this afternoon, I said, oh
God, I need to write a speech or do something. But I know most of you well enough, and you
know me well enough, that I want to just speak from my heart, because that's the true place of
who I am.
I have enjoyed working here, and people say, why did you say so long? It was a good deal for
me. I was in the field that I chose to be in, which was safety. I made that decision at a very young
age. So it was all good to me. And even when the time we say we're not good, where are my
haters? I don't see them. Where are the people who said, you can't do it. You can't make it. You
should do this and you do that. They're not here. So it's all good, in that aspect.
But I was thinking today, like, you need to say something profound and change RTD, and
whatever. RTD has been good to me, very, very good to me. This morning when I got up, and it's
like, you've got to write something. I didn't do it. But every morning, I do meditations. I do
studies, and pray, and do other things that I need to do to prepare me for the day. And all this
week and this morning, I was reading about gratitude, how we should have gratitude.
And what's wrong not with the country, but what's wrong with the world is people have lost what
they call having a spirit of gratitude and an attitude of gratitude. The day I was complaining
about how hot it was, I'd rather be in the heat than to be in South Carolina, OK. And that's how I
met my operates, and whatever.
But I began to think about RTD. And like anything, we are a major company. We are a major
player here. And I got me a little piece of paper, begin to write down my blessings at RTD. But
the day that really came alive to me, when I was reading my little meditation book, it had to do
with a story with Jesus, where there are 10 lepers who came before him. He healed the 10 lepers.
All 10 of them left rejoicing and everything. Only one of them came back to say thank you.
And earlier this week, I said, I'm going to call and tell them I'm not going to come. I'm not going
to come. That would be remiss of me not to come back and say thank you. You're not Jesus and
I'm not a leper, but-[LAUGHS]
But not to come back to say thank. And you look at that, just a simple word of thank you. And I
began to write down and list things of RTD, and then I'm going to be brief because I know this is
a busy night for you. But I began to look at how, first, I was grateful to come find a job in an

organization, a good organization and company, and I was hired because they had trust, faith,
and confidence that I could do the job.
I also want to say thank you. What gratitude looks like to me is that I got promotions. I came
back to say thank you that the decisions I've made and the things I did and didn't do and tried to
do-- the best I could do was all I could do, but I'm still here. I'm thankful for a paycheck that
never bounced, never was late. I was never asked, can you hold your paycheck a few days?
Because you may have experienced that or know people who that was not always the story.
I'm thankful that when I was sick, that there was medical insurance there and I was well taken
care of. Those are the things that I'm grateful for. I'm also grateful for my staff, that I always had
good people to work with. I'm thankful for coworkers, and things people did that people didn't
even know about. And then when it all comes down, I am thankful for my pension and my
retirement, OK. Makes me very happy that the fruits of my hands and the works and labors I did
here, I was compensated, and I thank you for that.
I'm not going to call names, because you start calling names. I did this at a great party that was
given to me. I left out a few people's names, and you know, folks will hold a grudge to you. But
always treat people nice because, who knows? That person might be the one that has to donate
you a kidney somewhere down the line, OK. So be nice to everybody.
But I have to, before I leave, I must say this. I want to thank Dave. Dave has not just been the
General Manager. Dave has just been an awesome friend, an awesome coworker. I know there
were times I drove him crazy, but the craziness was passion that I had for safety. And I
appreciate him so much.
I'm going to tell on him. I had a major health scare three years ago and I was in intensive care.
And I looked up one day and there was Dave. He came to see me. He doesn't know how much-- I
don't know if I ever told him-- how much that meant to me. His wife was always very kind to
me, and I've loved them both and care for them, and you all be nice to Dave. OK, I'm leaving, so
be nice to Dave. He's Dave to me, OK.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
[CHEERING]
He's General Manager, The Genova, but he's Dave to me, OK. And I appreciate that. That's not
out of respect, it's out of endearment. I appreciate what he's done for me, as well as for this
organization. Two other quick people. Ross, if I could, I'd nominate you for the Supreme Court.
There might be an opening soon.
I like Ross. I've worked with him. He's been a friend. He's just been kind. He's a family man,
takes care of his wonderful family and everything. And if I could, you would be on the Supreme

Court. I'm going to tell you the one thing I like about you, other than you were always helpful
and friendly, and whatever.
The right thing is the only thing to do and you always did the right thing. You always did what
was right regarding management, union, or whatever. Your advice, direction, and guidance were
always the right thing to do. So thank you.
And last, but not least, I didn't get to work with Mike that long, and I'm sorry about that. But I'm
glad I got to work with him because the best was saved for last. Mike is a man of God. He's a
good man. He's a strong man. And part of me leaving here, leaving was, I called them my
children. My children were my staff.
And I said, I can't leave them with just anybody. And Mike has proven to me that he cares about
people. He really cares about safety. And safety, as we know it now, is not going to look the
same way in the next year or two. It's going in a complete and new direction. But sometimes
change is good. It's going in the direction that it needs to be. It's getting the respect that he has.
And I just can't thank him enough. And Mike had told me, if you need me, call me. I'm around.
OK.
But I've loved working with RTD. I've enjoyed working at RTD. I just ask that God bless you.
Asking to be kind again to one another. Work together because this is a great organization and
it's getting greater by the moment. And again, thank you for everything and God bless you.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: And the Chair will note that we appreciate the clarification when Shirley
added that we're not Jesus. There sometimes could be those who are confused.
[LAUGHS]
We would also like, this evening, to acknowledge the following employee who could not join us
tonight, and that's Frilan Joe Cordova, who has been a body shop mechanic for 24 years. So we
want to thank for Frilan Joe Cordova for his many years of dedicated service to the district as
well.
We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to our public participation period, which is open to anyone
who wants to speak to the Board. As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present
to speak first so that they can get back to their own meetings and attend to business. If you have
signed up to speak, I will call your name in the order in which you signed up.
There are some supplemental procedures that we have instituted for this evening. I don't think it's
going to be a major problem. I do want you to know that those of you who have signed up to
speak, you actually have been given a sequential number, and I think it pretty much matches with
the sheet that I have before me. And we will call out the speakers in order. I don't think we need
to do things in waves because we are showing, presently, 18 people.

Oh, and then there are more that are on their way, OK. Well, we will be calling in, I think, the
first 15 at a time. So we do ask if you are in the area outside of this room, or upstairs on the first
floor in the atrium, please just pay attention because we will be calling out names and numbers,
or at least the numbers, after we have gotten through the first wave of speakers here.
Once you have spoken, we do respectfully ask that you exit from the room so that others will
have an opportunity to enter. We have, as you can see, our security staff here that's been
monitoring the number of people in the room because, obviously, we want to ensure, at all times,
that we are in compliance with any and all laws and regulations regarding that.
Secondly, I would note that we are extremely fortunate this evening to be joined by a large
number of engaged members of the public, many of whom I imagine are here to speak to the
merits of one item in particular on our agenda. As we do have so many individuals who would
like to speak, I would ask that the speakers, please, do your best to keep your comments brief
and, to the extent practicable, to refrain from expressing sentiments that have already been stated
previously by others.
And if you are part of a group, please consider having one person from your group speak on your
behalf. Feel free to indicate how many members of your group are here and that they are all
prepared to speak. But I assure, you we don't need you all to speak. Moreover, if you support-for example, to pick one topic-- the recommended action of the Board regarding the pass
program revisions to be discussed tonight, please feel free simply to say, I concur in the pass
program recommendations. We'll get the point. I like to tell people, I may be dumb, but I'm not
stupid.
If you have not signed up and you would like to speak, I will, once we get to the end, ask for any
additional speakers, following those who have signed up. Each speaker is allowed up to three
minutes. Let me repeat that, three minutes. We respectfully request that members of the audience
refrain from the understandable temptation to make any indications of support or opposition to a
speaker's comments, because such outbursts, actually, might reasonably have the effect of
chilling the free expression of thought by speakers.
And we do have, and we know we won't need this, but we do have procedures in place should
there be any kind of disturbance raised during the course of the speaking, to have people
addressed for such disturbance of the assembly, and ultimately should it be necessary, and I
know it won't be, to have them escorted from the assembly.
Now do, please, bear in mind that by appearing at the microphone, you are consenting to being
video and audio recorded by RTD, as all of our meetings are recorded and made available on the
RTD website. So if you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be
submitted in writing. So please come to the lectern when called and state your name and address.
And if any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please give those
materials to the Board staff prior to speaking.
And we will now, then, begin by calling. And if you folks could-- and it looks like some of you
already have, I recognized some faces there. I'll read off these names first. I'll go through the first

eight-- actually, I'll go through the first nine-- and have you ready. That's Bob Wilson, Joseph
Lamers, Yvette Freeman, David Kidd, Stephanie Richey, Angie Malpiede, Chris Nevitt, Jeff Su,
and Chris Havelin. So we'll begin, if those folks are there and ready, with Mr. Bob Wilson. Mr.
Wilson, if you'll give us your name and address and you'll have three minutes.
BOB WILSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. My name is Bob Wilson. I live at 5373 Parfet Street,
about a block north of the Parfet Street crossing on our ever joyful gold mine. And I'll make brief
comments to say I wish the directors all the wisdom and judgment and compassion and caring
for the constrained budget that you will have and will show.
And also for the audience, I wish I could stay and hear all the comments, but I'm not ready for
my Kiwanis meeting tomorrow morning at 7:00 AM. So I'm going to catch the 6:45 bus back to
Arvada, catch what I can. And as the Chair has requested, I will pick up my briefcase and exit,
listen upstairs. And for the speakers who'll be speaking, remember, it's easy to go long, it's very
hard to go short. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Wilson. We appreciate your thoughts and your brevity.
Speaker number 2, we invite Joseph Lamers to come forward. Please give your name, your
address, and you will have three minutes, sir.
JOSEPH LAMERS: Yes, my name is Joseph Lamers. I live at 1268 S. Otis Court, Lakewood.
I'm here on as co-chair of the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee. And Citizens Advisory
Committee strongly encourages the Board to accept the recommendations of the pass working
group. We've followed it for the entire-- have been involved with that all along. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Joseph. And thank you for your service on the
Citizens Advisory Committee as well. We are very appreciative of that. Speaker number 3,
Yvette Freeman. If you'd please give us your name, your address, and you'll have three minutes.
YVETTE FREEMAN: My name is Yvette Freeman. I live at 2710 Steele Street in Denver, and I
won't be as free brief, but I am scripted. I am a Board member with the nonprofit organization
All in Denver. Our organization believes in an equitable city, where all people have the
opportunity to prosper and thrive. Last year, All in Denver hosted a panel discussion about our
city's transportation system.
Our panel experts and audience emphasized that physical mobility and economic mobility are
synonymous. Therefore, All in Denver strongly supports the RTD Pass Program Working Group
(PPWG) recommendation for discount passes for students and low income riders. Many low
income community members rely on transit to access jobs, education, health care services daily.
I can personally attest to how critical, affordable, and reliable transportation is, as my family did
not have a car while I was growing up in Denver. And as a result, RTD was our sole form of
transportation. Today, transportation is typically a household second highest expense, next to
housing, with housing costs accounting for 24% in the average household budget. Transportation
costs are 18%. Ensuring that transportation costs remains affordable, particularly for you and

those most in need, is critical. Thank you for your consideration of this program, which offers a
meaningful step toward equitable outcomes in our city.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Freeman. We appreciate your comments. Speaker
number 4, David Kidd. Please, name and address, and you have up to three minutes, Mr. Kidd.
DAVID KIDD: Good evening, Board of directors. My name is David Kidd and I currently live at
944 13th Street in Boulder, Colorado. I am the student body president of the University of
Colorado Boulder, and I come before you today on behalf of the students of this university. I am
deeply troubled by the proposed changes to the RTD college pass program, and as the proposal
currently stands, it increases this program and hurts student affordability.
It's critical that we preserve the affordability of this program or risk losing it. As a student leader,
I strive to keep university costs affordable, including the cost of our student fees, which directly
pay for the college pass. Students depend upon, and pay for, the affordable transportation
provided by this program, and making changes to materially alter this pass may greatly inhibit
our access to education.
As a student, I am on a limited income. I work to support my college education, and any increase
in cost is a concern to me. I appreciate and need RTD services every day, but only because it is
affordable. The RTD college pass is, therefore, an integral part of our campus system and an
integral part of my daily life.
Now, as a Colorado resident, I believe that RTD should be facilitating the use of mass transit, not
creating financial barriers to it. Forming the habit in my generation of using public transportation
is supported by the affordability and availability of the current college pass. Establishing a
lifelong habit should be welcomed and encouraged, not discouraged by pricing us out.
Now, I understand that the Board is looking at discounts for youth and low income riders, and
this is admirable. But we have many students who fall into one, or both, of these categories. And
these discounts are not being considered for the college pass, and they should be. We need an
affordable experience, and this proposal does nothing but make this experience more
unaffordable. I ask that you, as the elected officials, serve the students you represent and vote
down this measure that increases the cost of this program and reduces student affordability
Thank you. Do you have any questions?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Kidd. We appreciate your comments. And we don't have an
interchange during these comments, but we know that we've received a number of
communications from the University of Colorado and others related. So thank you. Our next
speaker is Stephanie Richey. Stephanie, if you'd please come forward. Give us your name,
address, and you'll have three minutes.
STEPHANIE RICHEY: Hi, I'm Stephanie Richey. My address is 4721 S. Vivian Street in
Morrison, Colorado. That's Jefferson County. I ride the 116 X, and its original route. Currently
my employer is on the Flex pass, which is one of the passes that is looked at as being the
discounts taken away. If the discount is taken away, I stand to lose my subsidy of $35 dollars a

month. The discount my employer gives is $25.15 per month. On that pass, I end up paying
$110.35 a month, which works out to $1,324.20 a year.
If that is taken away and the option 3 that the financial community voted through last week goes
through, my regional route will jump to $2,400 a year. That is more than the property taxes in
Jefferson County, Colorado. There are four routes in the morning and in the afternoon for the
116X. It's the only option near my house, other than taking the W Line. I have taken the W Line
and it's rather scary. So that's why I ride the 116X.
I can tell you, also, I attended the last open house, when the fare increase went through the
previous round. And we begged for this increase not to hit the regional fares, or for it to go in at
all, because nobody likes fare increases, let's face it. We warned them that ridership would
decrease, and it has. The 116X has been hit hard, and most of our riders have now gone to the
111 because it ends up in the same spot, Ken Caryl Park N Ride, and they'd rather take a longer,
meandering route and actually pay more money to go quicker.
It's a $72 difference between that local pass and the regional pass, and that goes a long way
towards paying the cable bill, a water bill, a phone bill, extracurricular activities for your kids. I
think with this working group, I commend you for it, I really do. But at the same time, I think
there's a huge piece of the ridership that was overlooked when coming up with this fare structure,
and it's the outlying areas that are outside of the inner city of Denver.
And it makes it very rough when you're one of those groups that is hit, and hit hard, and then
asked to do that again. I can also tell you that on the November ballot, there is at least 23
initiatives on the ballot, asking taxpayers within these districts for more money for bond issues,
mil levy overrides Amendment 73 CDOT Scap Amendment, or 167 as well. So I just ask that
you vote this down, or at least reevaluate what's going on. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Richey. We appreciate your comments. Let we
recognize now our sixth speaker, Angie Malpiede. Angie, if you would please give us your name
and address and you'll have up to three minutes, ma'am.
ANGIE MALPIEDE: Good evening, Chair Tisdale. RTD Board of Directors, my name is Angie
Rivera-Malpiede and I reside at 2365 West 32nd Avenue in Denver, Colorado, and a member of
District C. I want to talk to you tonight as a member of the pass program working group, and I
want to use the word that Shirley used. I am grateful. I am grateful that you, as the Board, saw
the need for us, as a community, to take on this very, very difficult issue in the name of the entire
region.
I want you to know how honored I was to work with 25 amazing people for hundreds of hours,
researching, vetting, modeling, and really searching our souls to see what would be best for the
community at large, not just one region, or not just one geographic area, but the entire region. I
want to thank your staff for being committed. They are, all the time, answering questions, any
time of the day and night.

This was a rigorous process. It was probably one of the most difficult committees I've ever sat
on. But I am so proud to stand before you tonight to say that all 25 of us unanimously voted on
the recommendations that you have before you. A couple of tweaks, but, for sure, that's what's
happened. It's very unusual when you think about that.
I want to also thank you for allowing me to be the voice of my community, the working poor.
Yvette talked about 20% for housing, 18% for transportation. When you are a family of four
making 185% of the federal poverty level, that's just barely over $40,000 a year. That means you
make just over $3,000 a month, with almost half of your salary going for transportation and for
living. It doesn't include food, medical expenses, clothing you. Know how expensive running a
family household is. So I'm going to not belabor it. I just want to say [NON-ENGLISH
SPEECH] "in the name of my community," I wish you well and I am grateful for all of you.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Malpiede, and thank you for your service on the
pass program working group. Our next speaker is Mr. Chris Nevitt. Mr. Nevitt, if you'd come
forward, please. Name, address, and up to three minutes.
CHRIS NEVITT: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale and members of the RTD Board. My name is
Chris Nevitt. I'm here representing the city and county of Denver. I'm the city's Citywide
Manager for transit-oriented development. And perhaps, just for comic relief, I am not here to
talk about the recommendations from the pass program working group.
Our mayor has communicated to this Board, in writing, his thoughts, and for me to add my
words to his would only be gilding the lily. I'm here to talk about the proposal to lease space in
the Sheridan station garage to an affordable housing project sponsored by the Urban Land
Conservancy. And I'm just here to thank you and thank RTD staff for working so hard to make
this happen.
As you know, affordable housing is an enterprise that we are investing a great deal of time,
energy, and money in, and we see it as a triple bottom line issue. Putting affordable housing near
transit is good for our citizens. When our citizens take transit, that's good for congestion in the
city. And when we have a lot of people living near transit and taking transit, that's good for RTD.
But one of the challenges of affordable housing is, of course, the cost of parking. And so by
being able to partner with RTD to do shared parking at the Sheraton garage, which is relatively
underutilized, that creates an opportunity for us to build more units of affordable housing and to
have that housing be affordable to lower income levels. So again, satisfying that triple bottom
line for both of us.
So this was something we've been working on for a while. General Manager Genova, I think,
really broke the log jam. The CFO, Heather McKillop, worked hard on this. Chessy Brady, Bill
Seroy, others have done a lot of work to make this happen, and here we are at the final moment. I
appreciated your vote of confidence at your last meeting, and I look forward to your vote of
confidence of this meeting. And we're really excited to move forward with this. So thank you
very much.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Nevitt. Can we, just for the sake of the record, have your
address, please?
CHRIS NEVITT: Well, speaking as the City and County of Denver, my address is 201 West
Colfax.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. We appreciate that, and thank you for your
comments on that worthwhile project. Our next speaker is Mr. Jeff Su. Jeff, if you'd come
forward, please, and give us, again, for the sake of the record, your name, address, and three
minutes.
JEFF SU: Thank, Chair Tisdale. Thank you, RTD Board of Directors. My name is Jeff Su. I'm
speaking tonight on behalf of Mile High Connects and as a member of the pass program working
group. Address is 55 Madison Street, Denver. I say I concur with absolutely everything Angie
has said, and just wanted to, particularly, reiterate the work, in the last couple of months, that the
RTD staff has done, particularly Michael Washington and Heather McKillop. And look forward
to continuing to partner to look at the implementations.
The one thing I just wanted to say tonight, as I often say, I'm speaking on behalf of Mile High
Connects. I just wanted to explain a little bit further who that is. You're quite familiar with the
community advocates that are part of our collaboration. But Mile High Connect is specifically a
cross-sector group that was brought together to work on issues of transportation because it is
such a cross-cutting issue.
And the other organizations we represent that may not be as widely known is we also represent
financial institutions, including Wells Fargo, First Bank, and US bank; philanthropic
organizations, including Gates Community Foundation, the Denver Foundation, Rose
Community Foundation, and Piton Foundation; housing developers, such as Enterprise
Community Partners, ULC, and Neighborhood Development Project; as well as many of the
community advocates that serve on our steering committee.
So I just wanted to say, all of those different sectors strongly support and are grateful for the pass
program working group recommendations, the low-income pass, and the youth pass came
through the committee, and we strongly hope that you vote in favor of that tonight. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Su. We appreciate that. Before I recognize the
next speaker, I'm going to call the other names so that they can come into the room, if they aren't
already here.
So please, if you're outside, listen up. The next speakers will follow, and they are Joel Noble,
number 10. Jenee Donelson, number 11. Joshua Acosta, number 12. Andrew K., number 13. I
think it's Alice Dupree, number 14-- Aleta? Perhaps Aleta Dupree. And then Doug Nelson,
number 15. Stacey Johns, number 16. Lynn Guissinger, number 17. Sedona Lynn, number 18.

So if those of you whose names I have called would please come forward and be ready, we will
first turn to speaker number 9, Chris Havelin. Chris, name and address, and you will have up to
three minutes, please.
CHRIS HAVELIN: Sure. Thank you. My name is Chris Havelin I'm a senior transportation
planner for the city of Boulder. I reside at 1068 Eagle Court in Louisville. For the last 11 years, I
managed the city's EcoPass subsidy and rebate programs for neighborhoods and businesses, as
well as the Boulder junction access district, which provides EcoPass passes to all residents and
employees.
First of all, I'd like to thank RTD staff, RTD the Board members, and members of the pass
program working group for their time and effort in this process, especially Michael and Heather
for their time. The City of Boulder fully supports the pass program working group's
recommendations to implement low income and youth pass programs.
In regard to the EcoPass program recommendations, we do have some concerns and we believe
that there is more work to be done, but we do not want these issues to prevent things from
moving forward. We believe that RTD staff can work with the city and with our partners at CU
over these issues over the next few months.
Our largest concern is the impact of individual contract cost increases on pass program
participation, and therefore, RTD revenue. During the pass program working group, we learned
that, on aggregate, the EcoPass programs are working and the contracts do provide 30% farebox
revenue, upfront and guaranteed at the beginning of each year.
It is very important to remember that the pass program working group recommendations, such as
the idea of right pricing by year 3 and the costs increase caps, for example, were based on
aggregate data. No individual data was provided to the working groups, on districts, on
businesses, or on neighborhoods.
Of course, we knew that there were differences with the individual businesses and district
programs and there would be fluctuations with the new pricing. Now that we are first starting to
see individual data in just the last couple of weeks, we can see that-- sorry, my screen went dead.
Since we have only started seeing individual data for the first time in the last couple of weeks,
we can see that right pricing by year three may not be viable for all participants, and instead of
risking a loss of participation and revenue, we ask that the Board please consider longer right
pricing time frames and possibly lower increased caps, which are currently set at 20% for years 1
and years 2, for those programs that are facing significant increases and who also have already
set their budget for 2019 and, perhaps, beyond.
The impact on CU Boulder and our downtown Central Area General Improvement District
(CAGID) program is especially concerning to the city of Boulder. I think you have heard from
the CU Boulder on this issue. But for a CAGID the cost of the contract increases by $200,000 in
year 1 and year 2, but to right price by year 3 goes up a million dollars.

We are also concerned about businesses that are shifted to SLAC that are just outside of the
CAGID boundaries. We have not seen the data to back up this decision to move downtown
Boulder into the same transit service level area as downtown Denver. And at the same time,
Boulder is experiencing service cuts, including to our SKIP, the most popular route on
Broadway.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Havelin. We appreciate that. And by the way, please note,
we do have your letter that recites cites all of that information as well. So be assured, we have
certainly read that. Thank you very much. Our next speaker, speaker number 10, Joel Noble. Mr.
Noble, you are recognized. Please give us your name, address, and you'll have up to three
minutes.
JOEL NOBLE: Good evening, Board. My name is Joel Noble. I live at 2705 Stout street. That's
in Denver in RTD District B. I am here tonight representing the Inter-Neighborhood
Cooperation. This is an organization that's been around in Denver for more than 40 years,
representing all the neighborhood organizations in the city, approximately 100 neighborhood
organizations actively participating in our committees on transportation, zoning and planning,
parks and rec, and other topics.
In 2015, the Inter-Neighborhood Cooperation, and all of its member neighborhood organizations,
voted unanimously to adopt a transportation platform. It covered many topics, but one item is
key for tonight's discussion, and that is a call for equity. It specifically recommended that we
work with RTD to explore lower income fares and passes for lower income citizens.
I'm pleased to say that we were appointed to have a representative, myself, on the Pass Program
Working Group, and working with diverse interests, representing business community,
educational institutions, working poor, et cetera. We were able to find a package that you've been
considering for the past several months. We understand that some changes have been made from
that initial package, and that's to be expected.
Nothing is perfect. As a matter of fact, waiting for it to be perfect, trying to refine it until it's
perfect, makes the perfect the enemy of the good. So we're here to encourage you to adopt the
package and then continue refining it, as you find edges that don't work quite right, or new ideas.
Separately, as a citizen who lives in District B, I would just ask my Board member, and all Board
members, to vote for this. Because it's going to help with one of the problems I'm seeing happen
quite a bit, and that is, we hear about displacement, or gentrification. There's a lot of words it
goes under, but a lot of times, it means having to move further out in order to afford housing, and
thus, increase your transportation costs.
And if you don't have a lot of money, rely evermore so on our transportation district. So for those
people, and solidarity with Angie Malpiede, I would say, one of the most important aspects of
this is that low income fare. Thank you very much.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Noble, we appreciate that, sir. Speaker number
11, Jenee Donelson. Jenee, if you'd come forward. Name and address and you'll have up to three
minutes. Thank you.
JENEE DONELSON: 1634 North Downing Street. Jenee Donelson. Hello. My name is Jenee
Elise. I am the transit organizer for 9to5 Colorado, which has been one of the leaders of this
initiative through Mile High Connects, the founder of the Rocky Mountain Bus Drivers Union,
and I am also a proud bus driver. For the past 2 and 1/2 years, I spoke at this podium the truths of
the testimonies of these riders, in hopes that the work of the Affordable Fares Task Force be
heard and acted upon.
Today, we offer them, and you, our sincerest gratitude. This is a mighty win for the RTD's main
investors, who have always been the transit-dependent, the working poor, the single mothers, the
underserved and underpaid investors who pay into this system three times the amount than what
your occasional users do.
The income-based bus pass puts us on par with other cities that are growing just like we are. It
gives access to public transit, to folks that may not have found this option to be affordable. The
youth pass is a phenomenal achievement. Means this counsel create lifelong loyal users of public
transit. This not only affects us in the now, but the future generations will hopefully see public
transit as a cleaner and better option for traveling around Colorado.
However, we do not condone this unnecessary fare hike nor the fare hikes for Access-a-Ride.
These increases do not reflect the price of rent, food, energy, bills on a fixed income, which will
cause more harm to the ADA community than what will be anticipated by your financial
analysts. We ask that low income bus pass be available monthly before the implementation in
2019. We also ask that RTD remains true to their word, do not raise the fares until the incomebased bus pass is available.
We also ask that the youth ride for free up until the age of 12. It does not look good on you to
take money from children. Route closures and stop cancellations during a fare hike should be a
cause for concern and will be addressed continuously until proper changes have gone into place.
And yes, these actions still mimic redlining. And yes, the Board and staff should be concerned
with these practices, for the Board candidates in this room know that this problem will become
one for you to inherit.
And for the RTD staff in this room, know that this is a problem that you will be called to fix.
This work would not have gotten done without direct action, community-based building, and
grassroots organizing. And you can thank Mile High Connects, the Donald K. Foundation, 9to5
Colorado, Together Colorado, UNA the lovely members of Seaweed, the Gathering Place,
DRMAC, Metro Caring, Montbello Organizing Group, and the Rocky Mountain Bus Riders
Union included. Thank you to the Board members who voted yes today in favor of real,
impactful change.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. Donelson. We appreciate your comments there. We turn to
speaker number 12, Joshua Acosta. If you'd please come forward. Give us your name, address,
and you'll have up to three minutes, sir.
JOSHUA ACOSTA: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale. My name is Joshua Acosta. I reside at 15951
E. 13th Place. It's in Aurora. So I am also with the Rocky Mountain Bus Riders Union. And I
wanted to go with what my comrade Jenee said. It's about the work and effort going into the pass
program working group and the Board members who supported these passes. And just want to
also add that these fare hikes, which we do not support, of course, but they should definitely,
again, not come into effect until the low income passes are put into place.
And we want to stress, again, how important the monthly pass is to the whole purpose of getting
an income-based pass. Because, again, half of your ridership is us, the underpaid, underserved
community of workers. And we should not be spending more than 20% of our paychecks to get
around, which, again, currently there is no monthly pass option and it's $200 for a monthly pass.
We want to remind everyone here that RD is a public service and not a private business.
And though they clearly state affordability as one of their main concerns, and we want to see that
continue to be a triple bottom line, to continue to strive for. And while we accept and appreciate
the work done so far, we know we have a lot, a long way to go. I'll leave the Board with a couple
of our demands from the bus rider's manifesto.
It's important we demand a halt to all fare increases. We demand no new rail development
without affordable housing, no new route cuts or stop cancellations, decriminalization of fare
revision and to be the main contributors if any new fare studies or out studies do occur. Because,
again, we make this company. Thank you, again, for hearing me out, and have a good one.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for your time, Mr. Acosta. We appreciate your comments. We
turn to speaker number 13, Andrew K. If you'd please give us your name and your address, you'll
have up to three minutes.
ANDREW KUBICEK: Sure. Thank you, Chairman. My name's Andrew Kubicek, and I reside in
Golden, Colorado. I've lived in Colorado my entire life and I love this city. I want to say that I
think RTD has done a great job. The buses get us there. The trains get us there. It's very fair. I
really enjoy riding around. I don't have an agenda, like these guys do.
DOUG TISDALE: You can have more than three minutes if you need.
[LAUGHS]
ANDREW KUBICEK: Thank you. So I did come with a couple of, actually. Although according
to their reports, it seems that RTD is doing a really excellent job on making their budget
objectives, I think. So as a taxpayer, I didn't ask anyone ever to run around on these trains and
buses and police the fares, to push people off the trains, to turn them into criminals, to ask the
cities to file warrants against people. And that's what we've been doing for a long time and I
think we should stop that.

I was asked to fix a problem with RTD. I ride around a lot and talk to folks. They said, can you
fix the problem with the bicycles? I'm working on the buses. I know that two bicycles on the
front of the bus is pretty much what we can do.
But on the trains, the southbound trains, the Aurora trains, the west trains, the smaller trains that
don't really accommodate bicycles very well, I do have a plan. I think we can refit the one end of
the train to accommodate bicycles, similar to what they do on the commuter trains, and I think
it's feasible and it will work.
Cool.
So I kind of mentioned a few things about, again, the frivolous ticketing and bullying of guests
on our trains. I was also asked to ask the board if they could put in ADA seating near the
westbound W line areas on Federal Boulevard at the Decatur station. Currently, there's a lack of
seating available for anyone to sit and wait for sometimes what could be a half hour or an hour
for a train. So there's a lack of seating there. So thank you, guys, very much. And again, great
job. I like the trains and buses.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, Andrew. Speaker number 14,
Aleta Dupree. If you'd come forward. Please give your name, address, and you'll have up to three
minutes.
ALETA DUPREE: Chair Tisdale, members of the Board, ALETA Dupree, for the record. I
actually don't live in Denver. I guess I'm transient, if you will. But it's good to be here and I'm
here because when I am here, I ride RTD. And I came into Denver yesterday and rode the A line.
And [INAUDIBLE] never been to Denver Airport.
DOUG TISDALE: Aleta, you might just step back just a little hair from the microphone there.
ALETA DUPREE: OK, thank you. So good ride. I enjoyed it. I hope I can do it again. I hope
that we can become a more modern railroad, in that we'll have crossing gates that will operate
automatically instead of having to guard the gates. That goes back to a very long time.
And I have here the RTD app. I actually use it. It's very helpful to me. I have been following the
fare payment matters on RTD. I think it's important that we be more modern and efficient in this
matter, because the app and the MyRide are safe programs with registered protected balances.
And I wouldn't know anything about getting a monthly pass, but if you get a paper pass, which I
presume they are, and you lose it, well, you've lost yourself a $50 or $100 bill.
And for me, as a person with service-related disabilities, a veteran, and thank you for the Pledge
of Allegiance. That means a lot to me. I'm very happy to participate in that. That's important, that
I would hope that the app would have the complete slate of fare products from your day passes,
all the way up to your longer duration passes, so that we don't have to use these paper tickets.

And lastly, it's not being easy here. But I want this to be a people system. That's not to say, for
the record, that I'm a person who does not particularly fit the definitions of how one should
appear to look like. So people call me Mr. and Miss, and all kinds of things.
And they try to guess. And it's like, don't try to figure me out. I pay my fare, I ride. So my name
is Aleta. That is how I feel that I should be addressed. And OK, my time is about up, and I thank
you for supporting me the opportunity to speak and to come here and to ride RTD. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Aleta. We appreciate your participation in the process. Speaker
number 15, Doug Nelson. If you'd come forward, give us your name and your address, and you'll
have up to three minutes.
DOUG NELSON: Yeah, my name is Doug Nelson. I live at 10290 at West 65th Avenue in
Arvada, Colorado. And I'm here tonight representing Together Colorado and I'm a pastor in
Broomfield, Colorado. So I get around a little bit. But there are a number of us here from
Together Colorado tonight, and respecting your requests earlier, I'm just going give our
credentials and let the next speaker speak also for Together Colorado.
We're here tonight in support of the original recommendations of the committee, as far as the
youth passes and the low income passes. I want to just point out that Together Colorado has been
a part of our community for 40 years and we're hoping we have a working and having a goal
relationship with RTD for 40 more. And we will be here and, hopefully, supporting each other in
the kind of work we're trying to do. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Nelson. We appreciate that. And Stacey Johns,
you're going to finish out the story, I believe. If you'd give us name, address, and you'll have up
to three minutes.
STACEY JOHNS: Hello, my name-- whoa, hello. My name is Stacey Johns, 156 South Kings
Street in Denver in district C. I first wanted to thank you all. Many of you I've either had the
opportunity to chat with at the open houses, or you've been kind enough to have coffee with me.
And so I want to first thank my elected officials here for being so generous with your time and so
open to listening and trying to understand.
So I'm in support of the youth pass and of the low income pass. I appreciate, again, how you've
been working with the community. I hope, as we're working towards implementation, that we
can continue to work together on a couple issues. One which has been lifted up before is the
kiddos. The working pass group had proposed 12 and under to be free. It sounds like the city
may have given you guys some good ideas on how to implement that. And I hope that, as we're
working towards implementation, we can work on making that free for 12 and under.
Also, the monthly pass. It makes it difficult for kiddos. I mean, they need the pass because
they're going to school and it's a bit cumbersome if they don't have a monthly pass. So I hope
that we can continue to work together to resolve that issue for the kiddos and for low income
folks so they have an actual monthly pass that they can use. I'm a little concerned. I know that

the fares are going up January 1st, but the low income pass isn't going to be implemented until
July 1st.
And so I hope that you'll continue to engage with the community, with the different cities and
municipalities that are involved, to see what we can do about moving that forward. Because
these are bus-dependent folks and it seems a little unfair that they would have to bear that burden
for six months. So again, thank you so much for listening to us, for being generous with your
time, and meeting with us individually. And thank you for your vote for the low income pass and
the pass for students.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Johns. We appreciate your comment. And before
we hear from Director Elect, Lynn Guissinger. I do want to call up the next group to feel free to
come into the room. So if you're outside, listen closely. Natalie Wright, number 19. Hillary
Portell number 20. Commissioner Tina Francone, who is currently in the room, number 21.
Amy, and I believe it's Kafuma, speaker number 22. Felipe V., speaker number 23. Debra
Bustos, speaker number 24. Tracy Faust, number 25. Micaela King, speaker number 26. And
Nicole Portee, speaker number 27.
And this time, I recognize speaker number 17, and I call her Director Elect Lynn Guissinger
because Ms. Guissinger is unopposed on the ballot to succeed Director Charles Sisk. So Ms.
Guissinger you have the floor, but we do need your name and address.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you chances my name is Lynn Guissinger I live 3895 Cloverleaf
Drive, and I do look forward to joining you in trying to fill the very large shoes of Director Sisk.
I actually did not come here tonight to speak, but my good friend, John Tayer, the President of
the Boulder Chamber, wrote a letter. And he got it out late enough. He wasn't sure if it would
have reached all of you. So I apologize to those who have read it, but I will read it very quickly
because I do agree with much of what John says.
"General Manager Dave Genova and RTD Board of Directors. As a past RTD Board Director, a
participant on the pass program working group, and representative of the business interests in my
role with the Boulder Chamber, I thank you very much for the attention you are giving to
preservation of the suite of EcoPass programs, including the neighborhood, business, and college
passes.
While there are implementation details that I think are worth reviewing down the road, I support
the general direction the staff recommendation is taking and I hope you will support the
adjustments. They promise to make the EcoPass available to more individuals across the region
while respecting RTD's financial needs.
I do have one key concern regarding the college pass programs that I hope you will consider as
you vote tonight on the recommendations. Specifically, I ask you not make a final decision on
the pricing formula for the college pass tonight, which is consistent with the PPWG
recommendation. It's critical that we preserve the affordability of this program or risk losing it,

which will have disastrous revenue and ridership implications for RTD and create terrible
mobility issues around our metro area college campuses.
I'm sure, with open minds and time for further dialogue, RTD and our metro area college
campuses can arrive at a mutually agreeable pricing formula. Thank you very much for your
attention, [INAUDIBLE] and, again, for your work to create an EcoPass program that will
appropriately balance the goals of preserving ridership, marketing benefits, and meeting RTD's
financial needs."
And I would just say thank you, as well, for me, and thank you, especially to Heather and
Michael, who have been answering questions for me, as I learn the ropes here, and for all your
good work. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Designate Guissinger. We appreciate your appearance
here this evening. Speaker number 18. We turn now to Sedona Lynn. Sedona, if you'd please
give us your name and your address, and you'll have up to three minutes.
SEDONA LYNN: Hello everyone. Bienvenidos. My name is Sedona Lynn and my address is
3300 West Florida Avenue 80219. I am a student at Naropa University and a youth adviser
representing the Colorado Public Health Association's Health Equity Coalition. Today, we are
here to talk about RTD, to better understand, to open our minds and see how we can better
address health equity, creating more accessibility within our communities.
I conducted a mini report on public transportation based on two focus groups I facilitated with
diverse young people, along with other data sources. We must be intentionally creating inclusive
spaces for young people to have open dialogue about their experience with RTD. We can then
utilize youth input to elevate the voices of young people and improve the conditions they
experience.
Key findings from the focus group include increasing access to youth, especially nontraditional
youth, such as not in school or homeless. This is a huge point of the youth discount program
because it is based on age and not student status, which increases inclusively. I also think, from a
personal standpoint, that the college EcoPass must be sustained and that it is a huge factor in how
college students are getting to and from campus.
Secondly, safety for youth and bus drivers can be improved through trainings. The Community
Active Living Coalition, and other organizations, are willing to support implementation and
education around trainings for bus drivers, community members, and anyone else interested.
Lastly, we would like to see more positive messaging and artwork versus unhealthy advertising,
especially alcohol, on our buses, light rails, and bus stops.
The perceptions we receive from our built environment deeply impact our physical and
psychological health, as well as what we deem social norms. So let's do better. Let's spread more
positivity. In conclusion, young people must be heard and it is critical we can afford
transportation to thrive. As Cesar Chavez says, "s se puede, "yes we can."

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your enthusiastic comments, Miss
Lynn. And if the commissioner chooses, I will take you out of order. There were two before you,
but all right. Then speaker number 19, Natalie Wright, if you would come forward. Please, name,
address, and up to three minutes.
NATALIE WRIGHT: Concerning Ms. Natialie Wright, please, I'd like to pass on my comments.
But my name is Natalie Wood-- Wright.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your participation. Please pass that on.
Thank you. Speaker number 20, Hillary Portel. If you'd come forward please. Name, address,
and up to three minutes.
HILLARY PORTEL: Hi. I'm Hillary Portel. I live at 1124 South Milwaukee Street. I'm here
tonight on behalf of the Denver Streets Partnership. The Denver Streets Partnership is a coalition
of community organizations, advocating for people-friendly streets in Denver. On peoplefriendly streets, walking, biking, and transit are safe and accessible mobility options for all
people, regardless of age, income, and ability.
Other members of our steering committee include Walk Denver, All in Denver, Bike Denver, the
American Heart Association, Colorado Cross Disability Coalition, Colorado Public Interest
Research Group, and Groundwork Denver. We strongly urge you to adopt the affordable fares
recommendation, provided by the pass program working group.
The recommendation will increase access and opportunity for our most vulnerable populations.
Affordable transit can help more people participate in our booming economy, and making transit
accessible to youth helps build the next generation of transit ridership. Thank you for your
leadership.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Portel. Thank you for your comments. Speaker
number 21, a former Director of this Board, former First Vice Chair of this Board, and
Commissioner in Jefferson County, Tina Francone. Ms. Francone, if you would please give us
your name and your address for the record.
TINA FRANCONE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I am Tina Francone. My address is 7606 South
Newland Street, Littleton, Colorado in the heart of the District N. I'm pleased to be here tonight,
representing myself and myself only. I am not here on behalf of the Jefferson County Board of
County Commissioners.
First off, I wanted to congratulate the efforts of the pass working group. I know it was a long and
arduous task that they did, sitting with 25 people for that long a period of time. I don't know how
you did it. There must have an alcohol involved, but thank you for your work.
[LAUGHS]
I'm here to object and to ask this Board to not pass this recommendation. Firstly, the Pass
Program Working Group was convened to study and to make recommendations to this Board

regarding past programs, not the low income fare program. I object to their recommendations
because it's outside the scope of this study and for their review. And for this reason, any
recommendations made by this group should not be considered. And I would ask that the Board
take that into consideration.
Secondly, mandating RTD to do income verification is not within the powers of this agency.
RTD's a transit agency, not a social welfare agency. The expenses are exorbitant and should not
be borne by the taxpayer.
DOUG TISDALE: Excuse me. I'm very sorry. I apologize. I must not have made myself clear. It
is completely my fault that I did not say, please, no outbursts. I apologize. I should have made
that clear at the beginning. Commissioner, please proceed.
TINA FRANCONE: Thank you, sir. Lastly, there is no question that there is a need for a low
income fare, but this is the wrong solution. There's been a lot of talk tonight about equity, but
where's the equity in increasing the fare? The unspoken assumption here is we raise the rates on
the full fare patrons because they can pay. That's inequitable and it's unsustainable.
Thank you, Board of Directors, Mr. Genova, Mr. Asphaug and all staff of RTD for all your hard
work. You've done a wonderful job. I appreciate. It's kind of weird being on this side of the
podium. I appreciate you all and thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Commissioner. We appreciate your taking the time to
come before us tonight. Speaker number 22. Amy, and I apologize, I'm going to pronounce
Kafuma. You can correct me when you get up here and give us your name and address, and
you'll have up to three minutes.
AMY KAFUMA: Yeah, that's correct. So my name is Amy Kafuma. My address is 2540 High
Street, Denver, Colorado. I'm here representing a possibly different perspective than you're used
to hearing from. I'm with Above Waters Project and we work on community corrections issues,
also known as halfway houses. We're a small community organizing group here in Denver.
The issue with public transport being affordable and having routes that they can access are
critical to this community for a number of reasons. I know a lot of folks don't necessarily
prioritize communities of people who are coming out of jail, or prison, or who are in halfway
houses. Or sometimes, in the case of house halfway houses, they're diverted into these facilities,
but I'm still going to represent them anyway.
Affording a bus fare, or having access to a line where it might reach one of these facilities that
are often far away, is critical for them, whether they are trying to go to school, whether they're
trying to obtain work, or whether they're visiting their families who are supporting their
transition out of prison, or just maintaining that, which cutting lines and raising rates could
affect.
Oftentimes, these people are already in debt. They go into the halfway house system already
owing money. I know a lot that RTD donates a lot of bus fare passes to nonprofits, but I don't

think halfway houses are one of them anymore. I'm not sure if you ever did, but if you
considered a group worthy of donating these fares to, I would ask you to think about that. They
call it Community Corrections, and there should be a balance of getting their services in their
facility as well as their services in the community to make their transitions successful, which is
hopefully what we all want.
Last but not least, I want to speak about the intersectionality of-- I guess some people are tired of
hearing equitable, but it's important. But the equitable intersectionality of transport and how that
relates to mass incarcerations, from a Community Corrections perspective. Tactical violations, or
more commonly known as probation or parole violations, contribute to the overincarceration and
the overcriminalization of our communities.
But it's not often talked about. We talk about the initial crimes. We don't realize that our system
is actually full of people because they have these technical violations. Some so these technical
violations come because they couldn't afford a bus fare. Maybe the bus was late. Maybe the bus
cut a route they come back to their halfway house and they have a technical violation.
This can often send them back into prison, but at the very least, it shows the system, oh, they're
not working the program correctly. And they're going to be in there longer. And who's paying for
that, as well as them? The taxpayer. So while we may be concerned about-- well, I'm going to
keep reading this. Oh, shoot.
DOUG TISDALE: Take about 10 seconds and wrap up.
AMY KAFUMA: If you're not concerned about these people, which a lot of people aren't, then I
encourage you to think about your tax dollars, because the justice system is a revolving door.
These technical violations are contributing to it. I challenge you to think about public-- or how
you want to get your money for RTD. If you feel like you have to, as the last person spoke to,
you're getting it more from the other person, get it from public safety.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
AMY KAFUMA: Transit is a form-- should be considered a form of public safety. The criminal
justice system in the-DOUG TISDALE: Speaker number 23, Felipe V., if you could come forward please.
AMY KAFUMA: Is at nearly one billion dollars.
DOUG TISDALE: Felipe V., are you here? Felipe, are you here? This is your chance. Felipe, if
you're not here, going once, going twice, gone. Speaker number 24, Debra Bustos. If you would
give us, please, your name, your address, and you will have up to three minutes. Don't feel
obliged to take it all.
[LAUGHS]

DEBRA BUSTOS: Hopefully, I will not. Good evening. My name is Debra Bustos. I'm an
Arvada resident, but I'm here this evening on behalf of my organization, and that is located at
1600 Downing Street, Denver 80218. So I am the Senior Vice President of Real Estate for Urban
Land Conservancy, which is a nonprofit organization.
Our mission is, basically, to acquire real estate and preserve it for community benefit. We do a
variety of things. We work with charter schools, clinics. But a lot of our effort is around
affordable housing. Since our -- we're celebrating our 15th year this year and of the 29
investments that we've completed, almost all of them, with the exception of just a couple, are
along the transit corridors, so the light rail, the commuter rail, the high frequency bus lines. And
many times, we're just immediately adjacent to those station platforms. So we've been very
fortunate in that respect.
I want to, first of all, compliment the Board and the staff of RTD. We've had a very good
working relationship with the staff not only with the FasTrack staff, but also many of the project
field staff and the real estate team. Everybody's been very helpful in helping us advance our
efforts.
I'm here tonight to speak about the proposal that's before you for the 10th and Sheridan site. Mr.
Nevitt spoke of it earlier this evening, and I won't reiterate the things that he said about the
necessity of affordable housing. I think we all know. It's in the news a lot. We know the need for
that.
But this is a site that we actually purchased from RTD. We've both bought and sold property
with RTD. But this is a project that's going to deliver 133 units in the first phase. And the request
is that we're provided an opportunity to lease the parking garage, which is very underutilized, as
you know. And the good thing is that there will be future developments on the adjacent parcel.
Not only that, we own an additional three acres on the east side of this location, and it's a very
critical location where we really want to develop affordable housing.
I want to emphasize, too-- and I said I wasn't talk about affordable housing, but I'm going to for
half a second. This project will deliver affordable housing units to households ranging from 30%
to 60% area median income, which is some of the highest need housing. And it's really cool
because it partners with several organizations to bring in vouchers to increase that affordability.
And then finally, there was one thing I wanted to say that I have forgotten. And how's that for
timing? I apologize for taking all three minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: We know what's in your heart and it's in our, too. Thank you very much, Ms.
Bustos. We appreciate it. Speaker number 25, Tracy Faust. Tracy Faust, if you would please
come forward. Give us your name, address, and you'll have up to three minutes.
TRACY FAUST: May I pass this letter out, or how is that best-DOUG TISDALE: Please, if you would have staff take care of that. Yes, feel free.

TRACY FAUST: OK great, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And to the extent that your letter says your comments, just feel free to
incorporate by reference and give a brief introduction.
TRACY FAUST: Great. My name is Tracy Faust. I reside at 1157 South Julian Street, southwest
Denver. I am here, actually, tonight on behalf of my students, one who will speak right after me.
I recently took a role with Girls Athletic Leadership School in southwest Denver, and also the
boys school. I'm an administrator there for both the girls' and the boys' school.
We are a unique school with a unique model. The three overlapping circles of our model, strong
academics, positive gender focus, and movement, which is why I am in my workout clothes right
now. I'm reading a letter with each of you, outlining our support for the youth pass. I'm not going
to even try to say it better than Micaela's about to say it herself. But I am going to speak briefly
to the unique challenges we face as a public school in Denver, drawing students from all corners
of our city.
The map attached to the letter that you're receiving shows the locations for each of our families.
You'll notice there is no pattern and we draw from no one neighborhood than we draw from any
other. We pull from over 50 elementary schools in the city. While we are a public charter school
and are honored to be a part of the Denver public School's family, we do not have district
provided transportation. The way we take care of this is we receive passes from RTD. We
discount them over half than what we receive them for, and then we sell them directly to our
students. The school absorbs the cost.
The results in the school absorbing thousands of dollars in transportation costs, simply speaking,
is that we would like to see those dollars going back directly to our service of our students.
While I do believe the latest proposal was a step in the right direction, I do want to encourage the
Board to continue working with the community for a free pass for kids ages 12 and under. Also,
if you've never been to Girls Athletic Leadership School (GALS) or Boys School of Denver
(BOYS), its a really special place, and you have an open invite anytime. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Faust. We appreciate your comments and the
invitation. And so, as I understand, this is a speaker from your school. Speaker number 26,
Mah'Kaila King. Mah'Kaila, if you'd please come forward and give us your name, address, and
you'll have up to three minutes.
MAH'KAILA KING: My name is Mah'Kaila King. My address is 2741 West 12th avenue. And I
will read. "Hello. My name is Mah'Kaila King. I'm a senior at Girl's Athletic Leadership School,
also known as GALS. I'm here to talk to you tonight to tell you a little bit about my interest in
the discount youth pass that I understand you will be voting in tonight.
I live right near Mile High Stadium. Go Broncos. And my household consists of five kids,
including myself, my brother Marvin, my sister Janet, and my other sister Justine, and my son
Miguel, who has recently just turned four years old. We also live with my mom, Christine, who
is a single mother and has been through more than I have time to talk about here tonight.

My family has depended on public transportation my whole life. There are three main things
transportation has impacted for us, the access to a good school, groceries for my family,
including my grandmother, and a job, transportation for me and my brother to get to work. First,
let's talk about school. I have said I am a student. Like I said, I am a student at GALS and have
been there since 10th grade.
Before GALS, I attended Strive Excel. My family went through some stuff and we were
homeless off and on when I was in 10th grade. We found some housing and I was able to get a
spot at GALS since the buses out to Strive would take too long. Having a bus pass has allowed
me the chance to choose a school like GALS that has a great fit for me. Schools before GALS
weren't bad, but GALS has taught me to be confident in who I am and to be more open and
talkative with the people around me. Without my bus pass, I wouldn't be able to attend GALS.
The second way bus passes impacts my family is our access to healthy food. Luckily, we have
found a food bank near our side of town, but still we need to take the bus to get there. This food
bank has taught me how to cook healthy food for my family. And when we don't have enough
money or food stamps left, the food bank has provided everything we've needed.
And the last way that the bus passes impact our family is by me and my brother having a way to
get to our jobs. I work at the Family Dollar and my brother works at the Osage Cafe near Auraria
campus. My brother and I do our best to provide for our family. We use this money to keep our
clothes clean, buy hygiene items, and food.
It is hard for me, as a teenager, not to be able to buy nice shoes and many other things. Even
though it is not that important, people sometimes ask me why I'm not wearing certain things or
do not fit in with the group.
I'm glad that we are able to get this job because it takes for our family and things that really
matter, like food and shelter. Again, I really appreciate all that you've done to provide
transportation to my family. If we have had access to more affordable passes, we wouldn't have
to decide each month to get the ones that we can afford. I would like to live in a world where
each of my siblings has an opportunity to travel around our city without worrying if we can
afford it.
I didn't choose the life I was born into, but I am determined to make the best of it and take care
of my family as best as I can. Having access to affordable transportation is just one of the ways
that will make my life a little easier. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, MahKaila. We appreciate your comments. We all feel good for
you, but we're going to feel that in our hearts instead of applauding or anything. Speaker number
27. Nicole Portee is called forward. Before you speak, Nicole, I'm going to let the other folks
know-- because there are only four left on the list here-- that they can come into the room if they
are outside.

Those include Paulo Solorzano, Diane Bomar, Will Toor, and Terrine Blake. So if those four
people would also be available, they're going to line up and speak right after we hear from Nicole
Portee, who will now give us her name, address, and have up to three minutes.
NICOLE PORTEE: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale and RTD Board of Directors. My name is
Nicole Portee. I serve as the Executive Director for Denver Public Schools Transportation.
Address is 2909 West 7th Avenue. I'm here to speak on behalf of Denver Public Schools (DPS).
DPS was pleased to participate in the RTD pass working group, along with the local agencies,
organizations, and neighborhood groups. We also want to thank Michael Washington and
Heather and the RTD team for their leadership throughout this process.
Since 2005, DPS has been utilizing RTD as a major source of transportation for high school
students. The resource has been extremely beneficial for our student's access, and encourages
and enhances individual independence, as well as provides a pipeline for future public
transportation users for RTD. DPS provides 2,500 RTD passes per month to high school students
and supports, on average, 19,000 students with yellow bus transportation.
If RTD adopts these new programs, families and students will feel the impact of lowering the
cost of transit. For example, DPS would be able to purchase additional passes within our budget.
These passes both DPS provides will support additional connectivity to work, job, and other
training community resources for students. DPS thanks RTD for all of their continued
partnership, and we thank you for your support. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Portee. We appreciate your appearance here this
evening and your comments. Next in turn, speaker number 28, Paulo Solorzano. And Paulo, if
you would please give us your name, your address, and you'll have up to three minutes.
PAULO SOLORZANO: Paulo Solorzano, Aurora, Colorado. I just want to apologize for acting
out quite a little bit last time. That's just frustration, though. I reached out to quite a few of you.
I've been promised by general manager, Scott Reed. And I'm mentioning it again because I
haven't heard back. And some other Board members have not gotten back to me yet.
Low income, all that stuff. I know it's very difficult. It's taxes, low income, blah, blah blah,
metrics, blah, blah, blah. People, IDs, all that. I'm just talking about daily operations. If you guys
could just get the buses running on your schedules and have our-- the apps, the scheduling
online, all that-- just an example, just because I think it should be public. I mean, before the
schedule change this time, your online schedule was off for 48 hours. I mean, this sort of thing is
really typical within RTD, just basic, basic, basic things. Going on the fritz.
I've reported it a whole bunch. I've talked to general manager, Scott Reed and all that. And then
after I come to these things, which I can't get here on time because about a third of the time you
can expect not to get there on time, whether it be a missed transfer, one of the 8,000 plus hours,
whatever, that you guys are saying just don't show up. We also do have to pay more for that.
Because let's say I want to just go for a trip for $2.60, just go someplace. But I miss a transfer. I
got to make a decision later to pay $7 instead of-- because you've got to add $5 to get back on the
trip anyway.

This sort of thing I think should be said is that-- I mentioned once, just a lack of creativity I see
here, a lot lack of initiative and leadership. I don't hear any solutions. In fact, when I talked to a
few of you, it's been come back at me like, why don't you give me solutions and quit bitching?
This is one of your board directors. Quit bitching. If you're calling to give me problems, then
you're calling the wrong person.
But anyway, you guys are lacking funds and all this. You're on a really tight budget. I talked to
the treasurer and the food that you guys were catering is $12,403 so far this year. That would
send 2,500 kids on a $5 day pass, on a field trip, or something, or maybe pay for training.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank [AUDIO OUT] We appreciate your sharing of your thoughts. Speaker
number 29, Diane Bomar. Would you please give us your name, your address, and you have up
to three minutes.
DIANE BOMAR: Hello. My name is Diane Bomar. 2696 South Liden Street in Denver, my
address. And I'm here tonight to speak about a recommendation from the Paratransit Advisory
Committee, where we have voted, I suppose, on the fact that we would recommend to the Board
to increase the paratransit fare to $5 instead of the $6 that this new proposal would entitle you to
do.
This request and recommendation is based on the statistics of the people who depend on
paratransit to live their daily lives. And we are certainly the most dependent on-- we don't have
other means of transportation, such as riding a bike, various things. And we usually have low
income. However, from my own perspective, I want to encourage you to work out a plan that has
more to do with income-based programs, even for paratransit, than just disability-related.
Because to assume that everybody is low income normalizes that attitude and keeps it as what
people expect. And it shouldn't be what people expect. We want inclusion and we want equality,
and you can't have equality and inequality at the same time in equity. So I just wanted to
encourage the Board to work with our committee some and try to come up with some solutions
that can work for all sides. And I thank you for your time on this matter and for my opportunity
to speak with you tonight. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Bomar. We appreciate that. And I will point out
that we don't interact with the speakers to give responses to questions, and so forth. But some of
the information that you have may not be quite exactly accurate. We'll address that later. But we
very much appreciate your sharing your thoughts and views with us. Speaker number 30, Former
Commissioner, former every elected position known to man, Mr. Will Toor.
WILL TOOR: Thank you, Commissioner Tisdale and members of the Board. It's great to have
the opportunity to speak tonight. 3032 10th Street in Boulder, and I'm speaking tonight on behalf
of the Southwest Energy Efficiency Project. We believe that it's very important that the change is
made to the fare and pass program support multiple goals, including increasing transit ridership,
building a constituency for transit, meeting RTD's revenue needs, and providing mobility to low
income and disadvantaged communities.

Overall, we believe that much of the proposed approach before you release these goals-- in
particular, we applaud the proposed low income and youth pass programs, and believe that these
should move forward, perhaps with the addition of free fares for children up to age 12 and have a
monthly pass for low income riders. But that these propose increased equity, support increased
ridership, and will help to build the constituency for transit.
We are concerned, however, with some of the implications of the proposed changes to the
EcoPass and college pass programs. As a consulted analysis found during the pass program
working group process, these programs are very important to providing RTD revenue and to
maintaining and growing ridership. Unfortunately, the details of the way the proposed approach
affects some of the individual programs has the effect of creating really large price increases on a
number of the largest and most successful pass programs, including the college pass for both the
Auraria campus and the Boulder campus and the downtown Boulder master contract.
These programs are not only very important to the functioning of the transportation system in
those areas, but very beneficial to RTD. While the revenue per trip may be a little lower than the
system average, these programs generate so much ridership, filling empty seats, that the net
revenue impact is very positive, as evidenced by the high revenue per service hour and cost
recovery on routes heavily used by these pass holders. The proposed price increases are so high
that I think they really threaten the viability of a number of these programs.
So we would urge you to pass the recommendation before you, but with the following changes.
One, to ask staff to convene the most impacted stakeholders and work with them to find a
workable compromise that allows these programs to continue, and bring this back to the Board
by the end of the year. Two, considering extending the principle that no single year increase will
be over 20% for over two years, in order to give time for the budgets of these agencies to be able
to catch up with the price increases.
And finally, to incorporate the fact that many students are eligible for the use pass rate into the
calculation of the pricing for the college pass. We think that this is a fair approach that can be
done in a simple way that would not require extensive changes to the smart card system that
would actually help to mitigate those significant increases for colleges. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Toor. As always, a privilege to have you here
with us. Speaker number 31, Terin Blake. If you would please come forward and give you name,
address, and you'll have up to three minutes.
TERIN BLAKE: Hi. My name is Terrin, and I live at 18th and Bel Air at District C. And I have
lived in Denver all of my life, 31 years, and have been a bus rider since 2010 due to chronic
poverty from student loans. I am someone who would qualify for the income tax, as a daycare
director who makes less than minimum wage with my paycheck garnishment for student loans. I
am here today to ask you to vote yes on an income-based bus pass.
I am very disappointed that the original vision of the past has been greatly watered down over
the last six years, but know that a yes vote would give riders like me a pass program foundation I
can work with and work to improve. The currently planned method of distribution for income-

based bus passes and youth passes lacks vision and innovative thinking, in addition to the
program being rolled out too slowly.
So many people born and raised in Colorado are leaving due to poverty and we're losing
community due to decisions made by rich, white people representing special interests rather than
the working class transit-dependent. We want this process program and equity for people
experiencing poverty now.
I believe that passes should be acquired through Department of Human Services with income
verification done by a case worker, just like food stamps, and then acquired through DHS and
RTD offices on a yearly basis, as the EcoPass handled at Union Station for bourgeoisie office
and nonprofit workers. Asking a working class person to get a ticket booked from the gatekeeper
to resources, a nonprofit, and travel 12 times a year to an establishment, only open 9:00 to 5:00,
when most working class people working is not the definition of access.
I also think youth should be able to access passes with the ease that bourgeoisie EcoPass users
do, with a card and ID issued one time, preventing drivers from having to enact prejudice, or
their own work stress, upon children trying to ride a bus. I am appalled that Heather McKillop
told the working pass group, in our last meeting, that RTD doesn't want low income riders in her
office. Shame on her and shame on RTD.
Additionally, I find it completely unacceptable that half the Board, last meeting, acted as though
their hands were tied in finding funding to serve youth and working class people in these pass
programs. It is a Board member's job to find the money. You can't place the burden on college
students and colleges and DPS with more fees. Rather than threatening riders with reduced
schedules and stops, every Board member should be working toward finding innovative funding
and solutions.
It is your job at $1,000 a month to write legislation, write federal grants, dismantle TABOR and
serve the people of Denver. Under Dave Genova, routes and schedules have been reduced by
600% as fares continue to increase. I'd also like to add that the RTD extension of the three-hour
pass to travel both directions is laughable.
Not a single bus driver checks the direction of the three-hour pass and lets every rider use the
three-hour pass, according to time. To act as though RTD is giving us a gift is a joke. You are
giving something to us we already have. If this pass program is not improved with the intent of
providing better access that I addressed, you are going to be seeing more of me, the Rocky
Mountain Bus Rider Union, and more working class socialist people taking your very seats on
this Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for your comments, Ms. Blake. Or should I say, merci beaucoup.
The speaker's list is now exhausted. Are there any other speakers who would wish to speak who
have not previously signed up? Hearing none, we will stand in recess for five minutes. Five
minute recess.

Are there any questions from the Directors, relative to the committee minutes? If not, those
committee reports will stand as submitted and become a part of the permanent record. Those
reports include planning capital programs of FasTrack committee, Lubos-- I'm sorry.
[LAUGHS]
Excuse me. It's the spacing on the page. The Executive Committee, the Government Relations
Committee, the Civil Rights Committee, the Operations and Customer Service Committee, the
Financial Administration of Audit Committee, and the Oversight and Performance Management
Committee, the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee. And
therefore, the record will reflect that those stand as permanently submitted as part of the record
for permanence.
Speaking of the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee,
Committee Chair Walker will now provide for us, please, at this time, his comments and update
regarding. The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee, you will
note that the minutes for the last meeting have been presented to you and approved by your prior
action. Director Walker. Mr. Chairman, please address this.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. This is Jeff Walker. I'm the Chair of the GMOC, the Oversight
Committee. So the Oversight Committee met on September 11th. We immediately went into
executive session to discuss issues pursuant to that statute in the Colorado revised statues. So
pursuant to, and consistent with, the motion adopted by the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee-- the Committee-- on August 14th, 2018, regarding a
process for exploring possible amendments to the executive employment agreement, which
motion was reviewed and discussed at length and in detail by the Board of directors, that it had
its August 21st, 2018 meeting.
Director Hoy moved for the appointment of Committee Chair Walker-- that's me-- and the Chair
Tisdale to serve as negotiators for the purpose of 1, exploring the general manager potential-exploring with the general manager potential amendments to the executive employment
agreement with the general manager, the terms of which potential amendments would be subject
to the parameters discussed by the members of the committee and by other members of the
Board present during that day's executive session.
And 2, reporting back to the committee regarding the fruits of their discussions with the general
manager for future considerations and possible action by the committee. So that was the outcome
of our meeting on September 11th. Also, Director-- I'm sorry, Chair Tisdale and I and Barbara
McManus and Jeff-- Jeff whose last name I can't pronounce-- we talked about the survey, the end
of the year survey, because there was some suggestions on changes to that survey.
So we discussed some options for those. So I expect that we'll have maybe a draft for the next
survey probably around October, sometime before October 9th. And we're thinking that the next
meeting-- at this point we're looking at October 9th for the next meeting of the Oversight
Committee. And that is my report.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there any questions of the GMOC Walker,
relative to his report? Seeing no indications, we'll move on. Thank you very much, Chair Walker.
We appreciate that. We turn, then, to approval of the Board meeting minutes of August 21, 2018.
May I please have a motion to approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting? I have
several motions. I have a series of seconds. Are there any discussion on that motion? Hearing
none, all those in favor, indicate by saying, aye.
AUDIENCE: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. Let me
turn to the Chair's report. Let me give you some highlights, as noted on our calendar. There is a
potential-- emphasize the word "potential"-- for a special board meeting to be held this Thursday,
September the 20th. Should that meeting be necessary, after we convene, the Board would
immediately vote to proceed into executive session. The Board would then, at that time, consider
a recommended action, or actions, in open session, following the conclusion of the executive
session. The agenda is posted on our website, and that may be updated as we know more relative
to the circumstances.
Please note, however, that this special Board meeting has been called and may yet be canceled.
So please, if you have any interest in that, pay attention to the Board or Director's page on the
RTD website for more details. And Directors Ms. McManus and Board office will keep you
informed.
The APTA annual meeting will proceed in Nashville, Tennessee from September 23rd through
September 26th. And I'm delighted to say that Directors Anderson, Hoy, Walker, and Williams
will be attending. A very important conference of the American Public Transportation
Association that provides a great deal of support to the RTD and gives us a lot of useful
information and networking opportunities.
The RTD recently held rodeos for bus, light rail, and snow plow operators and maintainers. The
participants in those events will be honored next month at our Board meeting. And I want to say,
you absolutely want to be here for these incredible people. There are some particularly
wonderful, heartwarming stories associated with these employees that you are absolutely going
to treasure.
Next, I'll note that the 2018 Colorado Transportation Summit is scheduled for Friday, September
20th at the Hyatt Regency convention Center in Denver. Many of our directors will be in
attendance at that. I think you may have your tickets on your places this evening. Looking into
October, the Transportation and Construction Girl Luncheon will be held at the Renaissance
Hotel in Stapleton, and Director Catlin will be there at that very wonderful event. It is a fantastic
event that offers inspiration to our future leaders in the transportation and construction industries.
The Commuting Solutions 20th birthday bash is scheduled on October the 10th in Broomfield,
and a number of directors will be there, including Directors Catlin, Folska, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
and myself. And then Rail-Volution will take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania next month from

October 21st through the 24th. And Directors Catlin and Walker will be in attendance, along
with our Board Executive Manager, Ms. McManus.
And yesterday, General Manager Genova and I were privileged to welcome 135 members of the
Louisville, Kentucky Chamber of Commerce, as they arrived in Denver-- I'm sorry, it was on
Sunday. I wrote this yesterday. Never mind-- as they arrived in Denver for their Glide 2018
program. We hosted them on the University of Colorado A line from Denver International
Airport to Denver Union Station, and they were universally impressed with what we have done
here in Denver, and they did enjoy being given a tour by a genuine Kentucky colonel.
DAVE GENOVA: Not me.
[LAUGHS]
DOUG TISDALE: And it wasn't General Manager Genova. So now, the general manager's
report. The one thing I will point out-- that I know he's going to get a few comments on-- last
week, General Manager Genova and I were fortunate to be able to kick off the Transportation
Transformation event, which, by all accounts, was a resounding success. General Manager
Genova, please, share with us some of the highlights of that particular event, along with the
balance of your report, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will start off with the Transportation
Transformation Summit. So we estimated about 125 people attended, which was really a great
response. We had sent out about 300 invitations, and so about a third of that group. And then we
had a lot of people that didn't register that showed up day of, so we were a little bit standing
room only. But it was a very good event, in terms of meeting really, all of our objectives and
being able to communicate RTD vision on being a regional mobility integrator and wanting to
lead the discussions on that strategy.
We were able to update the group on a lot of information and things that we're doing at RTD and
upcoming. Also, we had a keynote presenter that talked about a lot of the different pilots in the
mobility area and provided a lot of good information there. And then we had a local panelist
group that talked about some of the local projects. Included somebody from City and County of
Denver, DU, and then, also, Heather McKillop talked about our technology initiatives on
ticketing and things.
So then we opened into a session of feedback. We had some breakout sessions, and I'm really
pleased to report that they were incredibly effective we got some really great engagement by the
stakeholders that attended. I'll also mention that the stakeholders were broad-based throughout
our entire region and district. So we were we were very happy with the turnout, and extremely
pleased with the level of engagement and the input that we received. That's going to be very
beneficial as we continue in this dialogue and work towards our strategic goal in 2019 of
addressing future transportation needs and methods.
I want to make sure the Board is aware of our Annual Transportation Legislative Review
Committee presentation, which will be on October 1st. I believe it is in the calendar. That's on

October 1st at 9:00 AM. Chair Tisdale and myself will provide a brief presentation, a general
update on RTD, and then respond to their questions.
Last week, I believe it was, we, were invited to participate, by APTA, in a series of meetings in
Washington DC, being that we're a commuter route road that is implementing positive train
technology from the ground up in a new system, as opposed to being retrofitting. So there was a
series of meetings with House and Senate Committees in Washington DC. There was also a
hearing in front of one of the committees. And so we were invited to participate in that. And
Henry [? Estoppelcamp ?] represented us very well in exchanging our experience in
implementing new positive train control systems.
I also want to mention that-- well, to follow-up on a couple of the Chair's comments on the bus
rodeo. I will give you a bit of information that was very exciting, and you'll meet everybody next
month. But really exciting, the winners of the bus maintenance competition. Very young team
out of Boulder. I'm told that at least, one if not all three of them, are graduates of the DTECH
program, been with RTD maybe only a year. One of them isn't even 21 years old. But to see
these three young men being announced at first place in the Maintainer's Competition was
extraordinary. So you'll meet them and we'll share their stories. So that was really great, a great
part of the day.
Let me get onto A and G, University of Colorado A line and G line update. And I'll start talking
about the G line. Some good progress to report. The Board's aware that we have what's called a
21-day system performance demonstration period that is a contractual requirement. This has
nothing to do with the regulatory requirements that the project has to meet. It's a contractual
requirement that we have.
The Denver transit partners has completed that 21 day-- it's 21 consecutive days, where they
have to perform at greater than 95% availability ratio, and then at least seven consecutive days at
greater than a 97% availability ratio. These are very high performance targets. I'm pleased to let
the Board know that on Friday, they completed the 21 days. And they actually had two, I think,
consecutive seven day periods of above 97%.
So very good marks on that. We also received approval from the Federal Railroad
Administration to field test the software mitigation on the grade crossing equipment to address
that one, early train arrival that we had that we discovered during testing of the G line. So that's a
big step and a big milestone to get that testing approved.
That field testing has been done over a couple of days, evenings, last week. And then over
Saturday, their DTP's preparing the reports that will go to the Federal Railroad Administration.
And hopefully, we'll get their approval on the testing reports to be able, then, to load that out to
the full fleet and then continue to optimize that system.
Regarding the University of Colorado A line, the Board knows that we filed the waiver, the
waiver application, with the Federal Railroad Administration for constant warning time, which is
the next step toward getting our quiet zones. That's in the-- excuse me, that is in the comment
period in the federal register right now. And that's about all I have on those two projects.

I will point out that in the written report that's part of the packet, there's more annotation in my
report on every line item, so you can see a little bit more information on what's happening with
those certain meetings I do want to let the Board know that during the last month, I had the
pleasure of meeting twice with US representative Ed Perlmutter. The first time was part of a
travel and tourism roundtable that he had, but then the second one was a teleconference, where
he had asked for a comprehensive review of the G line and where we are. And we had a very,
very good discussion that day.
In addition to the Louisville, Kentucky group come in, I want to mention that we've had visitors
from Charlotte. They're looking at a gateway station, and everyone's interested in what we've
done with Union Station and how we did it. So they were here not long ago. We have a group
from Indianapolis that is going to be coming soon.
Oh, and then one thing I wanted to mention. We have a group that meets quarterly, and this is
really under the Civil Rights group, and a lot to do with procurement, and that's our RTD small
and disadvantaged business enterprise advisory counsel, or what we call DBAC. Again, they
come in quarterly, but at the last meeting-- at least once a year, I like to go to that meeting
myself, along with all of the senior leadership team. We do introductions.
We really want the community of small businesses to know only how to do business with RTD,
but to know what the highest level within the organization, if they have questions, department to
department, and what are the contracting opportunities, they know who we are and can contact
us individually. So each department and each AGM and COO introduced themselves and talked
about the responsibilities that they oversee, the contracting opportunities that are available there.
So we really enjoy doing that every year.
And then the last thing I will mention is that the Board has seen the retirement announcement of
Scott Reed, and this is his last formal board meeting. And he tells me that he did the math, and
that, over his career 27 years here, he's been to over 1,000 Board meetings. So just wanted to
mention that little bit of information. I'm sure we'll see Scott next month at the podium, like we
saw Shirley tonight. And that concludes my report, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager. I'm just sitting here trying to
contemplate sitting through 1,000 Board meetings.
[LAUGHS]
OK. There are several speakers in the queue, if you'll stay with us for a moment, General
Manager. And first we'll recognize Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. Dave, thank you for that presentation. About the A line and
the quiet zones, I know that we've had people from the public in that area here, wanting to make
sure that they're kept informed of what's going on. And I'm wondering if our staff has been in
touch with these people. There's one guy, in general, he kept contacting us. But are they in touch
with him and letting him know what's going on?

DAVE GENOVA: Director Lubow, we are. And in fact, I've actually had some email exchanges
with that one individual that I think you're talking about. And basically, the last time I updated
him was about when we applied for the waiver and what the status is, and then when it hit the
federal register and the comment period. And it's probably time for me to share a little bit more
information. Maybe in the next week or so, and we'll do that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Folska, you're recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. General Manager Genova, when you said that
you hosted 135 people from the Louisville chamber of Commerce, does that mean that RTD paid
for their A line ticket?
DAVE GENOVA: Director Folska, I thank you for that question because I meant to say that. No,
they paid for their own day passes. And when they showed up, they all had a regional day pass in
their hands.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much.
DAVE GENOVA: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: An excellent clarification. Thank you. Director Menten, you're recognized.
Madam Vice Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I would like to follow up with director Lubow's questions
regarding so that Mr. Martin could be informed. He can share with the neighborhood. What will
this mean? With this comment period, how much time is left? What is the process, then, after
that? When could they look forward to having a peaceful quiet day?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Director Menten. So regarding the comment period, we did ask,
in our correspondence in requesting the waiver, for FRA to waive that, waive that time frame. So
that's something that they may do. So the federal register notice went out early September. Our
waiver application went in early August.
And I understood, from a comment I heard from our team today, that that time is from when we
submitted the application. I need to clarify that because I just heard that today from a staff
member. So I will get back to the Board on whether that comment period starts from the time we
submitted the application or from when it hits the federal register. So I need to get clarification
on that.
We did have conversations with the FRA headquarters team and they did say that there was a
possibility that they could consider it before the comment period ended. So we're still having
conversations with them. One of the things the Federal Route Administration wanted to see was
our response to the software mitigation issue, and their approval of that issue as they're
continuing to consider the waiver as well. But we're still within that comment time period.

Let's just take a couple of steps forward. Once we're successful in receiving that waiver, then we
can file the notice of establishment, and then it's a 21-day time frame from there to be able to
enter into the quiet zones. The variable in there is I don't know when to expect getting a waiver
for the constant warning time. But as we know more about that, we'll certainly keep the Board
and the public informed.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So if you could write something out. And then I know Mr. Martin
has had email exchanges with you because I check in with him about weekly myself. Or he
checks in with me, either way. What other communication has been given to you, whether it be
the porch newspaper out in that area or the homeowners associations? What have we done, if
anything?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, we put out that information every week in the weekly general
manager's report, and that's widely distributed to the public. It's available on the website. That's
probably one of the most public facing documents, where we're putting in very timely updates
every week. So that information has been included, and we continue to-- that's usually the first
item or two on that weekly GM report is the update on the University of Colorado A line and the
G line, and the latest information on where we are. But I'll also check in with our project
outreach group on that as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And so the document that we get from you on Fridays is not
only coming just to our mailbox but it is also posted on the website, or is that only in the hub?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, there's two different documents you'll see on a Friday. You see the
weekly general manager and CEO summary. That's a memo that I distribute to the Board of
directors. I mean, we could post that but that's not been our practice to date. But the other one is
that the document that we've done, traditionally for a very long time, which has been a public
facing document, is the weekly general manager's report that includes a lot of areas, updates on
all kinds of projects. But what I do is put the very timely-- the things that I think people are most
interested in, I put at the very beginning of that report.
NATALIE MENTEN: So then you would be speaking of the Monday morning? So we're getting
the Friday, the public is getting the Monday. Is that right?
DAVE GENOVA: No, the GM report goes out on Friday. The general manager's weekly report
goes out on Friday.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: And then there's the Monday morning dispatcher course, but that's on
Monday. That's an employee faced-- that's an internal facing document.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
SPEAKER: Director Menten, I did want to address that, in terms of the Stapleton Front Porch,
we do work with them very frequently and provide them with updates. They want to run that as

frequently as they feel comfortable, so they know any time they open the door, we'll provide
them with that information. So it is an ongoing process. We have a good working relationship
with them.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. That's all of the questions I have. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Vice Chair, because I am glad that we had the
opportunity to clarify the amount and the number of times that the general manager is making
outreach to the public, relative to all of these reports. Did you have anything else, General
Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: I do not, Mr. Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you very much, sir. Then we turn to Section 11 of our agenda, the
unanimous consent items. We have one item on the anonymous consent agenda tonight. It is
noted as agenda item number 11 action A. It's the approval of the budget transfer. If anyone has a
change, too, or questions on this item, please feel free to speak up at this time.
And we would, of course, then be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for
discussion under recommended action. Are there any takers to that? Seeing none, may I have a
motion to approve the loan item on the consented agenda? I have a motion from second Vice
Chair Deadwyler. I have a second from, what was it, Director Archuleta? We're going to go
without then. So we have Deadwyler and Archuleta as the movement for second. If you would
please proceed now to vote, ladies and gentlemen.
And by a vote of 15 in favor and none opposed, that motion passes unanimously. The approval
of the budget transfer, as noted in the record, is approved. We turn, then, to section 12 of our
agenda. This is recommended action items. The first one on this is listed as item B, adoption of
the preferred alternative for the 2019 through 2021 fare structure. It is recommended by the
Financial Administration of Audit Committee the Board of directors approved the recommended
fare policy changes, as outlined in attachment A. May I please-- remember, I'm hard of hearing.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Move approval.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I have Chair Anderson. And who called-- that was Chair Sisk
who called the second. So I have Chair Anderson who made the motion and Chair Sisk who
made the second, if the record could so reflect. I want you to know, ladies and gentlemen, given
the importance and the magnitude of the fare proposal presented in this motion, the Chair is first
going to welcome and recognize our Chief Financial Officer, Heather McKillop and our Transit
Equity Manager, Michael Washington, to give us a very brief recap of the fare policy changes
contained in the recommended action currently before us.
We believe that this will actually greatly facilitate the Board's careful consideration of this
matter, and will also serve to communicate important information to the members of the public
gathered here today. Ms. McKillop, the floor is briefly yours.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, and I got the word briefly, so we will be. Michael and I
have prepared a comment that we just wanted to share with the Board and point out a few areas
that we know are outstanding concerns and kind of give you our feedback on those. So with that,
we wanted to say we know that this has been a very long and exhausting process over the last 20
months. We want to thank the members of the pass working group, as well as all of the public
that participated in the telephone town hall, telephone survey, open houses, and online.
A process like this is never easy and conflict will occur. However, we think that, although
contentious at times, the process was a very good one, and the staff recommendation that we are
asking you to approve tonight is well-thought out and takes into consideration the funding
constraints, as well as the needs of our customers, and in time, will lead to increased use of our
transit system that we are so proud of here at RTD.
We understand that not everyone is happy with all of the recommendations, and this will occur
when trying to meet the needs of such a diverse group of constituents. And we know that it has
not been easy to please all, but we do thank, again, all of the efforts of both our public, and
definitely, the pass working group members, and especially those that have showed up month
after month.
Based on the feedback we have received over the last couple of weeks, we have narrowed down
the outstanding concerns to the following, and we wanted to address those particularly, many of
them, what you heard this evening. The first and foremost is the 12 and under free. We heard that
a lot tonight. We did provide for you earlier today a staff update on the efforts that we have done
to date to try to address that issue.
As we mentioned in that report, it is more complicated than I think it seems on the surface. And
in looking at the options available to us, we just could not come up with a solution at this time
that would allow us to implement the 12 and under for free by the January deadline, which we're
hoping to meet for the youth income. Our priority is implementation of low income and the
successful implementation of that, assuming the Board makes an affirmative decision tonight on
that.
On the youth fare media, we did make a change since we last talked to you last week. We heard a
lot of the input around being able to offer that on more paper-based products, in addition to just
the MyRide and the mobile ticketing. We were able to figure out a way, and I want to say we're
very hopeful that by January 1st, we can offer paper products at TVMs on the bus, a ten-ride, and
a monthly pass for Youth Media.
Regarding the low income fare media that you heard about over time, this was modeled as part of
the pass working group. At the February 6th meeting, it was presented that it would be on smart
card only at a time. Some of them, using for that list. One is our counterparts that have
implemented a low income fare in the past-- Seattle, Portland (TriMet), Minneapolis, and now
Los Angeles-- have only implemented their low income program on a smart card.
The advantages are simplification and speeding up of boardings, easier to manage the eligibility
requirements. We can track the performance of the program to see if it's successful, which we

cannot do with paper products. And it reduces the operator and rider conflicts as it comes to
those programs. We did examine if we would offer a monthly product for the low income, and
we have estimated that that would cost us an additional $8.2 million over the next three year
period of time.
Now, that could change, depending on the adoption rate as it moves forward, and we will
continue to monitor that. But at this time, we thought it was more important to recommend the
40% discount than to recommend a monthly pass for that program. We feel that the benefits of
putting it on a smart card or mobile ticketing, it provides us to be able to report back to the Board
the success of the program as we move forward.
You've heard a lot tonight about the college and EcoPass, in particular, from one particular
group. And we understand that moving to a utilization-based process for the college and EcoPass
hasn't created an increased crease cost for those, and we understand their concerns about the third
year not being kept. The reasoning for that, which was done as part of the pass working group
recommendations, was really related to our budget constraints. We had to look at what that cost
would be by year 3 and take that in consideration when we looked at the targets that we had for
the budget in 2021.
As we know, and we'll be talking about the next couple months, our revenue targets change on a
regular basis, and from year to year, we update those. So as with everything else, we would look
at what money is being generated through sales and used tax and fare revenues, what the
programs will look like as we implement this in 2019, and we will bring back, as you know,
updates on a regular basis as to how these new programs are performing.
We will continue to work with college pass and EcoPass holders on their concerns on a regular
basis. We know that the college pass is already done for this year, so those will go into effect the
fall of 2019. And we do commit to continually work with those concerns that have been
expressed tonight on those programs. With that, I would ask if Michael has anything to add.
Chair, thank you for the opportunity tonight. It's been a privilege to serve the Board on the pass
working group and through this process, and we will be looking forward to your vote this
evening.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, Ms. McKillop. If the two of you
will remain seated, there may be some questions that the directors wish to put your way. But we
turn now to discussion on the motion concerning the adoption of the preferred alternative. And in
the queue first, I see Director Solano. Director, you are recognized, sir.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale. Thank you, Heather and Michael and
the great work you did in the pass program working group. I support the pass program working
group option 3, which benefits the low income and youth. However, keep in mind, the Board has
historically been generous in making appropriations at the request of RTD management for
projects and salary increases, but it has become clear that RTD needs to tighten its belt before
asking the Board to raise rates on some of our most vulnerable community members. Please bear
in mind that RTD wanted the fare increase with or without low income and youth pass program.

I would like to make a motion to amend that the Board vote to freeze paratransit service for the
2019 calendar year.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I second it.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion that has been made by Director Solano to amend the item
on the floor. Director Deadwyler has seconded that motion. The discussion will now turn to the
amendment. Director Solano, you are recognized, if you wish to speak further to your proposed
amendment.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Sure, I do. I think we've got to keep in mind that the most vulnerable
populations are the most affected by any type of increase.
JUDY LUBOW: I have a point of order question.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, Director, we need to interrupt for a point of order. What is your
point of order?
JUDY LUBOW: I just wanted to understand more. When you said freeze, are you talking about
the cost would be at the cost as it is now would be frozen?
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: No. Freeze the fare increase that the class program working group
has suggested.
JUDY LUBOW: So it would be the same as it is now?
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes? OK, thank you.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Yes, that's it.
DOUG TISDALE: This is not a colloquy. We had a point of order and we've got that, and it was
probably more technically a point of information. Nonetheless, if I can ask, just for the sake of
the record, if you would restate the motions so that we can all make sure that we have it and have
a clear understanding.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Sure. I would like to make that motion to amend that the Board of
Directors freeze paratransit service's rates to the current rate for the 2019 calendar year.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there any questions first, just to understanding the
motion to amend? All right. Based upon that, I interrupted you, Director Solano. I want to
apologize, but I had to for a point of order. So please feel free to continue.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: OK, I think we must take care of our most vulnerable populations. I
had an uncle that was paraplegic, and I was thinking about this for a whole week. And it's just

appalling that we're going to raise fares on a population that is most affected by any increase. A
lot of these people are low income and can barely make it, and I don't think we should put any
kind of increase on their back and their burden. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Broom, you're next in line. However, you
may have elected to speak to the main motion, as opposed to the motion to amend. Are you
speaking to the motion to amend?
BOB BROOM: The motion to amend. I have a question.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir. Please proceed, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Have you calculated the annual cost of this request? In other words, if your
motion were to pass, what would be the budget implications for the year?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. That's a question that is directed to Director
Solano, as the movement, the way you phrased it. But I take it that perhaps staff might be able to
facilitate a response to that. And so let me turn to Chief Financial Officer McKillop first and say,
do you have any response to Director Broom's question concerning the motion to amend as
submitted?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I do not know what that dollar amount was. I was not prepared for that
amendment. I apologize for that. We do know that the difference between bringing it down from
$6 to $5, from what was originally proposed in the proposal that we presented, was about
$400,000 over three years, I believe it was, or $200,000 a year. So I'm assuming it's probably
going to be another $300,000 to $400,000 a year, potentially.
DOUG TISDALE: And as I hear the motion, the motion is to freeze the current transit rates for
the year 2019. It does not speak to anything beyond that. It's 2019. So is it your fair estimate at
this time-- pardon the expression-- that the fares, as adjusted, would be impacted by
approximately a $200,000 reduction?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I would say close to $200,000 to $300,000, somewhere in there.
$200,000 to $300,000.
DOUG TISDALE: $200,000 to $300,000.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, in revenue.
DOUG TISDALE: Reduction in revenue. Thank you. And Director Broom, does that respond to
your question?
BOB BROOM: Yes it does. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Second Vice Chair Deadwyler, you are recognized,
please.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I've been warring over this whole thing
for the past couple of months, in terms of how I was going to vote for this. And my biggest
concern is our ADA community. And I have brought it up to you, Heather, a couple of times
about there are low income people that have to use the Assist-a-Ride also. And they're not even
being considered to get a low income discount or go through a means process to see if they
qualify for a low income discount.
And what appalls me is that we want to get these students, which I really appreciate students in
the youth program, but we want to let them write 365 days a year at 70% discount, but our
elderly and our disabled can't even make it to the doctor once a month because we're not even
considering that.
This is not an equitable product and I can't vote yes on something that's going to leave part of our
society at bay, where they can't qualify for something that they need just as much as everybody
else, that every other low income person wants and are demanding. They're demanding it from
us, but we have to give it to everyone. We can't just pick and choose.
And I know Assist-a-Ride cost is high, boarding costs is high, but they are still-- we're required
by federal government to provide it. So it doesn't matter what the cost is. But it does matter when
these people are living on a fixed income-- and not all of them, but some of these people living
on a fixed income-- that should qualify-- they can qualify for low income discounts-- is not being
considered at all.
And when I heard the lady speak tonight-- because when I asked her several times, she said ADA
community agreed. The ADA community agreed. Well yeah, if my arm's twisted behind my
back, if I'm using Gestapo efforts, let's say take $6 or you take the $5, yeah, I'm going to take the
$5. I will do that.
So I don't know why they're not being considered at all. They are just as vulnerable as anybody
else. And they need to get around. They need to get to the doctor. They need to go out to the
park. Or whatever, whatever else these teenagers want to do, they need to do the same thing. And
I support this amendment to set aside any fare increase for the 2019 until you all get in there and
look at it again and see how you can work it out for them. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Second Vice Chair. Director Folska, you are a
recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I would be in favor of supporting this
amendment, but over the next year. And I think this is something that, in general, when we're
looking at low income fares-- I mean, half this board is a senior citizen, right?
[LAUGHS]
And the majority of these people-DOUG TISDALE: The word is age-advantaged.

[LAUGHS]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I doubt they need a senior discount. Some do, some don't. So I think it
would be worth RTD's while to really make this a fair and simple fare structure by doing this
income or means testing through those other third party agencies that have already been
discussed. And I know many people with disabilities who need to use paratransit and can afford
to pay a fare increase.
But until you can figure out how to do the income-based, I would say freezing the increase for
2019 would be really simple if you are willing to go and look at doing that income-based. I think
that would make it fair for everybody and we can just get over this and move on. Thank you,
Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madame Secretary. Chair Hoy, you are recognized,
sir.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I'm a little confused. I know that some of our disabled
community pay more than the regular fare and some pay nothing, I believe. If they're qualified,
don't they get-HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, that's not correct. So currently-DOUG TISDALE: Our Director McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I apologize, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Ladies and gentlemen, Manager McKillop. You're recognized to answer the
question of Chair Hoy.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I apologize for that. So currently, the policy is that they pay double
what the cash fare is minus the MyRide discount. So that's the current policy. And so what was
alluded to earlier, that the fare would have gone up to $6 which would have been double the cash
fare for the local.
So just to clarify, we did meet with the APAC and the ACPD and they actually made the
recommendation to us. We did not suggest the amount of the $5 for local. I have learned since
then that some of the members of those groups have changed their position on that. But I just
wanted to clarify. So that has been our policy in the past. The staff recommendation is the $5. I
believe it's $10, $15, and $20.
And as I understand the motion, it would be to freeze that amount at the current $4.70, and then
the corresponding regional on airport fare for 2019, if I understand that correctly.
DOUG TISDALE: As I understand, the motion to amend, it is to freeze those paratransit fares
for the year 2019 rather than to increase them, correct. Chair Hoy, you had a further response or
question.

LARRY HOY: Yes. Please indulge me just one more question because the answer took longer
than my question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry.
LARRY HOY: It's OK. The second part of that, is what I heard correct, that because you have a
disability, you would not be able to qualify for a discount fare?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So correctly, you can't. Right now, if you're an Access-a-Ride user, an
ADA user, you do not qualify. You can still qualify for a discount, but you couldn't use it on the
Access-a-Ride.
LARRY HOY: So if you met all the criteria for low income but were also disabled, you wouldn't
be able to use it on the Access-a-Ride system?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: On the Access-a-Ride. On the fixed route system, yes. And if you
qualify for Access-a-Ride currently, you get to use the fixed route system for free. So you get to
use it for free.
LARRY HOY: That's the free part I was wondering about.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes
LARRY HOY: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if you currently go in and you're qualified to be ride Access-a-Ride,
then if you're able, then you can ride the fixed system for free right now.
LARRY HOY: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But right now, you do not get to take advantage-- or at least it's not in
the staff's proposal to take advantage of the 40% income I'm on the regular fare for Access-aRide. And part of the reason of that is the sheer cost of Access-a-Ride, our 2017 figures is $62 a
trip is what it cost us, so one way for Access-a-Ride.
DOUG TISDALE: For the sake of the record, if I may attempt to summarize so that we have
some clarity on this. As I understand it, the situation is that the proposal is for Access-a-Ride
services to be increased. And when we speak of the paratransit community, we are talking about
people who qualify for Access-a-Ride. Those individuals are being asked, under the proposal as
submitted without the amendment, to have a slight increase.
For the sake of the record, it needs to be understood by all that those individuals, in any event,
ride for free every other mode of transportation that the RTD has to offer, whether that be dial a
ride, whether it be fixed route buses, whether it be bus rapid transit, whether it be light rail,
whether it be commuter rail, they do not pay one penny to use any of those services. Have I
correctly stated that, Ms. McKillop?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. All right. Does that respond to your question?
LARRY HOY: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Chair Anderson, you are recognized.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I certainly understand the reasoning
behind Director Solano's motion. However, I would rather-- something so important as this
should not be done in a few minutes here at the Board. I would rather keep it the way it is, as we
are doing some of the other parts of this issue, and let staff come back to the Board. The Board
can always change it at any time. But I would rather have better information and more time to
think about it and talk about it. So I will be opposing this motion. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, and we're still on the motion to amend, as made by
Director Solano and seconded by Director Deadwyler to freeze the paratransit for 2019. Director
Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm going to be in support of this amendment
motion. I wasn't thinking about it, but it seems that the total cost of the program is about
$300,000. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Ms. McKillop, you are recognized to answer the question of Director
Lubow.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We are just estimating, off the top our heads, based on some other
calculations that we've done, that the reduction in revenue, if this were to pass, this amendment
would be about $300,000 a year. And we're talking about one year, as I understand.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And to me, although $300,000 is a lot of money in the cosmic order
of things, in terms of RTD budget, it's not that much. And I think it sends a very important
message that we care a lot about these people. And what I would propose, 1, I would vote for
this. But if it doesn't pass, I would urge you to think about this and come back to the Board, if
you could propose something later. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Since we have already heard from
Director Broom and Direct Folska, we will come back to them. But we have not heard from
Director Catlin, so she has precedence in the order. We recognize Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. With respect to the amendment motion, not to the
overall primary motion-- I just wanted to be clear-- I agree with Director Anderson, that I would
rather take a look at it in more detail since we do have the opportunity to come back and bite at
this apple more than once. So I agree with her. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. We'll Now go to Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. It would be very tempting to vote in favor of this, but if you
stop and think about it, if all 15 of the directors have one particular part of this program that
they'd like to change, then you add that all up, then we've really created a fiscal problem here. So
I'm not going to be supporting this.
I mean, if it needs to be revisited further down the line, we can revisit it. But I think you're just
opening a can of worms if you start to pick away on various things and everybody has got their
pet areas that-- like college passes, or whatever else might come up. Pretty soon, we're talking
about really big money. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Wise observations. Director Folska,
you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I thank you, Chair Tisdale. It seems to me that the people who don't use
paratransit fail to understand the critical importance that it provides to people. And when we talk
about people who are on a fixed income, we're talking $700 a month, $1,200 a month. And I
know people who work at say, Arc, for example. And they're going to work five days a week,
and they may be blind. They may have a cognitive impairment. And that means a $10 fee every
day with no discount to go to work and contribute to their community.
And by the way, nonprofit organizations in America, since about 1930, an Act of Congress-- and
Senator Warren has also spoken about this-- it's legal to pay people who are blind or cognitively
impaired 70% below minimum wage. So I would say I think it would be OK, in the scheme of
things, $200,000, $300,000 is really a drop in the bucket here, but these people are making a
huge contribution.
And it's not easy. If those people could ride the fixed route, believe me, they'd be very happy to
take the 40% discount. People with disabilities don't want to sit on the short bus. They want to be
with everybody else, with dignity and integrity in their community. And I think it's reprehensible
to raise the rate now. I would be willing to give it a year and see what you can come up with.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Catlin, we return to you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just to clarify, I think the motion was to amend tonight, but I hear that we
have three more months before this would go into effect to make some kind of a change. And I
guess when I was commenting earlier about supporting Director Anderson, it would be my intent
to revisit this next month and make any appropriate changes. That was where I was coming from.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. I appreciate that. The Chair will recognize
himself at this time for a brief comment, and that is that I take to heart what Director Catlin has
said and what Chair Anderson and Director Broom have also said, relative to the fact that there is
a significant purpose behind considering this question closely.

But when one considers something closely, I submit, one should consider it carefully. And I do
not think that doing so on the fly is of service to this agency, to our constituents, or to the
specific subgroup of constituents that are being addressed here. I would like to have some
information to weigh and analyze the impact of the fact that these individuals also have the
benefit of riding free on every other modality. And that's one of the reasons that you provide that,
is because you don't want them to use the Access-a-Ride services when, reasonably-- emphasis
added-- they can utilize other services to locomote through the region.
So for that reason, I would respectfully suggest that the motion should be denied that has not
passed, and that we give ourselves at least until the next meeting to secure further information
through the proper committees. Director Solano, because, particularly, my comments speak to
your motion, I'm happy and pleased to recognize you, sir.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: I motion.
DOUG TISDALE: So the question has been called. Is there objection to the call of the question?
If there is not objection to the call of the question, we can call for the vote. If you object to the
call of the question, we would have to put that to a vote.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like to put it to vote. Do I get a say?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, you do because we have called the question. Is there a second to calling
the question?
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second. Is there any-- no, it's non-debatable. Sorry. All those in favor of
calling the question, indicate by saying, aye.
AUDIENCE: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed?
BOARD MEMBER: Opposed.
NATALIE MENTEN: Opposed.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So the ayes clearly have it, in that case. And so the question is
called. Debate is concluded, relative to the item. We return now-- I'm sorry, we turn now to the
motion to amend. Motion to amend is moved by Director Solano and seconded by Second Vice
Chair Deadwyler to freeze the paratransit rates for 2019. If the movement and the second would
please vote, and the rest of you would please vote. You can vote in favor, which is to freeze. You
can vote against, which is to keep the program as set forth in the proposal tonight.
By a vote of seven in favor and eight opposed, the motion to amend fails. Return to the main
motion. The main motion is the original proposal as unamended at this point in time. Those who

wish to speak on the original motion without amendment, and I'll turn first to Madam Vice
Chair. You are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: My statement right before that vote took place would be that I would be
happy to vote on freezing for-- voting for, excuse me-- freezing the paratransit, but only after we
would vote on the first original amendment. And as I indicated in the last meeting, I do not
believe that option 3 achieves what is in this recommended action, and that is revenue certainty
for this agency.
And I know that when I went out to all the open houses, and our own, what I heard from
passengers is that knowing the bus was going to show up was one of the most important things to
them. And if we are shifting, going into an uncertain revenue period, I mean, we have certainty
right now. We will not with a low income pass.
If we went with option 2, I would be very happy to vote for the freeze for a one year period on
the paratransit, as I agree. That would be a very good vote for us. That's all I wanted to say. I will
not be voting for 3, I guess, is the other part of that statement.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. Director Broom, you are
recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had a question. Typically, when a transit agency increases
fares, it always leads to a loss of ridership. In this case, where we are increasing the base fare of
$260 by 15%, that's a fairly substantial increase for the full fare rider. What kind of a ridership
loss are we projecting that we're going to see, and how long do you calculate it will take to cover
those ridership numbers that we're losing as a result of raising figures?
DOUG TISDALE: And we will invite our Chief Financial Officer Assistant General Manager
McKillop to respond to that. I believe information has been found, obviously, in the prior
submissions. And she is looking through her own files now to find that PowerPoint page that was
discussed by us last week at the hearing on this matter before the committee, at which point, I
think on about page 8 or so, there was a discussion of projections relative to revenue and
ridership going forward. Having stalled for you, Ms. McKillop, can you respond to the question?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So yes. In the last presentation, we showed you the difference between
the ridership numbers and the pass working recommendation and the staff recommendation,
which is nearly identical. But in earlier presentations, which I'm trying to quickly get to now, we
do show a decrease in ridership as a result of the fare increase. And I wanted to be able-AUDIENCE: Second to last page.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Second to last page? Here, we'll find it. Can we move on and I can
come back to answering that question?

DOUG TISDALE: Director Broom, if you don't mind holding for that. We will proceed with
some others, and when you have a response, if you could give some indication to the Chair, we
would be happy to recognize you again. Director Mihalik, you are recognized, sir.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Just a quick comment. I'll probably be done before
they find it. I am encouraged-DOUG TISDALE: That's OK. A lawyer is following you, so that will take time.
[LAUGHS]
KEN MIHALIK: I'll just say that I'm encouraged to see the enthusiasm by others to revisit these
figures prior to 2021, and as early as next month, even. So that's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Mihalik. We appreciate that. Chair Sisk, you
are recognized, sir.
CHARLES L. SISK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Two points, one of which is that I, too, am
encouraged by the fact. And that's something that Heather has told all of us, that these will be
revisited. I think that's so important, in terms of the transparency of organization. So I would
hope that the directors will hold our staff to task. I firmly believe that. So it's something upon
which I'm relying, and I think the citizens can rely.
So that gives me great comfort and it addresses some issues. The second is that this goes to Roth.
Roth is a point of order. If the main motion passes, main motion passes and I voted yes, or I
voted no, in terms of that, and prevailing party, I could bring that up again after the main motion,
if it passes. Is that a fair statement.
Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. General Counsel, you're recognized. Yes.
CHARLES L. SISK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: The parliamentary inquiry is well taken and we appreciate that. Ms.
McKillop, we return to you for a response to Director Broom's question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, and I will make this my office, apparently. I was turning out all
my papers here. So I want to let you know about the ridership for no increase. So no changes to
the program. All of that was option 1. Ridership was projected at $94.1 million in 2019, with
both options, too. And the pass working group options, it brings us down to about $92.3 million.
And I can go through the other years also. 2020, baseline is $98.1 million. The pass working
group recommendation brings it down to $96.6 million. In 2021, baseline was $99.4 million, and
it brings it down to $97.5 million.

DOUG TISDALE: So more or less a delta of $2 million each year.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Archuleta, you are recognized, sir.
BONNIE "ERNEST" ARCHULETA: Thank you, Doug. I'm sorry, Chair Tisdale. I don't know. I
have just this one question. I'm just wondering, are we going to price ourself out of the arena? I
mean, are we charging the people too much where it's going to mess up our account, mess up our
intake, or whatever? Maybe you have an answer for that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: I take Dr. Archuleta's question as more of a rhetorical question, but
nonetheless, if you have an observation that is directly pertinent put to that, Ms. McKillop.
BONNIE "ERNEST" ARCHULETA: Maybe your opinion.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we did conduct modeling, as you know, extensive modeling to
come up with these numbers. And based on the modeling, we did see an increase in fare revenue,
but a slight reduction in ridership, AS was just projected, OR just mentioned. So I think the
reason we take a look at these every three years is to have that conversation with the Board, to
see if we're at a saturation point, or if there's additional opportunities, different programs that you
want to implement, like we went through this year with the pass working group.
So I know that wasn't a yes/no answer, but I can tell you for the recommendation that we're
making today, the modeling results show that we will be able to achieve those revenue targets. It
depends on your opinion of what minimal ridership loss is, but minimal ridership loss.
BONNIE "ERNEST" ARCHULETA: Heather, did you test throughout the country? Are we
going to be the highest, or are we going to be the lowest?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am, Ms. McKillop, you are recognized to respond to the question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I apologize for not pointing that out, but we're not going to be the
highest, but we're definitely not going to be the lowest. So I would say that we're probably
towards the top tier. One of the difficulties in being able to make that analysis, as we see a lot of
the sister agencies that we have a two-hour pass versus a three-hour pass. So if you extrapolate
that information for a three-hour pass, they're closer to what our numbers are going to be now.
BONNIE "ERNEST" ARCHULETA: All right, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Folska, you are recognized.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Thank you. General Manager Genova, can we count on your
commitment to revisit these issues that have been brought up this evening before the end of the
year, perhaps more likely next month?
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager Genova, you are recognized to respond to that question.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So we will bring back analysis next month on the
Access-a-Ride fare, as asked by the Board tonight, for consideration. And then other areas are as
we are able to. One of the notes I made to myself was being able to talk to our team about this
notion of revisiting from time to time, of kind of putting together an outline of what a reasonable
schedule might look like as these items get implemented and as we're monitoring how they're
working, and being able to come back, report back to the Board at certain milestones. But let us
take a stab at putting together some kind of a schedule on that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And if you could give me an idea of when you could possibly consider an
income-based pass. Mr. Chair, can I answer that?
DOUG TISDALE: All right, Chief Financial Officer McKillop, if you would please respond to
Director Folska's question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So are you talking about an income-based pass for ADA or a low
income pass that we've been talking about?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: For everyone, because, like I said, there are senior citizens that don't need
a discount. So just giving a random discount blanketly to people because they're part of the silver
tsunami, let's say. It may or may not be appropriate. I mean, if you can pay, you should pay. If
you can't, you can't.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, Chief Financial Officer, other than addressing the federal law
implicated, you can feel free to respond.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So as you probably know, the staff recommendation includes the low
income, which we are hoping to implement July 1 of 2019. As we talked about in the last several
meetings, we are working on various options of means testing, and how-- because we don't
believe we're in the business of means testing-- how that might be outsourced and how we can
work with the state in doing so. That's our current plan.
We cannot get that process in place by January. We have mentioned that to the Board on many
occasions. That is a very complicated process and we're not able to do that. But we do believe
that we will be able to move forward with that in July, and that is the staff recommendation.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, so I guess then, perhaps I'd like to really understand-- maybe if we
can take it offline-- what was so complicated about this, in excessive detail. I'm very curious to
know that. But I don't see why, just because you're a senior citizen, you get a discount.

DOUG TISDALE: And if I can, that was what Mr. Washington, I think, was trying to respond to,
and that's why I made the comment that, aside from the fact that the federal government pursuant
to federal law mandates us to give a discount to senior-- I'm sorry, age-advantaged-- people at
the rate of 50%, we have no choice in that. Mr. Washington, can you confirm that?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Director Hoy-- I'm sorry, Director
Folska, did you have anything else?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Chair Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chairman. So to quote a famous philosopher, well, that's another fine
mess you've gotten me into. And you have to be a, what, age-advantaged to understand that. That
would be Oliver Hardy, for you young folks here. So tonight, we've heard testimony about the
perceived or real issues around the college pass, the EcoPass, ADA issues. All of this
demonstrates that in this package, there's something to hate for everybody.
[LAUGHS]
I don't think it's perfect. I think there are a lot of issues for each one of us to pick up on. We've
had a whole motion to amend over one of them. It makes it difficult. As I said in the past, it's
tough for me. This is a tough one. I'm pretty sure I won't have any more difficult decisions like
this for the rest of my term because, as many of you know, I won't be here next year, and that
probably pleases someone.
So we heard things about the youth pass. Some testimony we heard that really hit home with me
was somebody indicated that if we went through with the discounts, that Denver Public Schools
would be able to spend that money, save money, and spend it on other educational items, which,
in a roundabout way, means that all of our tax payers are going to end up supporting Denver
Public Schools.
And I've had debates and discussions with other directors about this. But that doesn't sit right
with me, either. When I heard that, those words just made me think, hm. So the person that lives
in Lyons that pays their RTD tax is going to improve education for Denver Public Schools. It just
seemed to ring wrong.
The paratransit thing is hard for me to believe and understand. And maybe there's no way around
it, but if you're disabled, you don't get the same discount as if you're healthy. That just seems
odd. So I guess where I'm at is still conflicted. I think, in the end, I have always said I would
support more, I guess, subsidies from this agency for our disadvantaged people through our
nonprofit process.

I thought that was a good program. It worked. I mean it, worked. It didn't work perfect. I had
some problems with some of it, and have expressed that in the past. So it's going to be hard for
me to support this. I just wanted that explanation. I wanted everybody to hear that. I think there's
too many things that I just don't feel comfortable with. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Hoy. I appreciate that. And if the Chair can just
observe, recall her transits do get a 100% discount on all fixed route, all bus rapid transit, all
light rail, all commuter rail. Director Lubow, Madame Treasurer.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm going to be supporting the motion. I, too, am
concerned about the high increase in fares, but it's certainly not solely relegated to the low
income fare. We were going to increase our fares anyway. And I had a long discussion with
Heather about that and we talked about, well, recouping just the increase in costs. And that's
important to do, and I know it is important to do, but I do think that we can be pricing ourselves
out of our market.
But that's not even the issue. The issue is that it's hard for people. It's just it's hard, and we all
know that. But nonetheless, I'm going to be supporting it because, although it's not perfect, it is a
start in us telling people that we're going to be of assistance. And I just believe in that. I really
do. One of the things I wanted to ask, though, was Dave, when you said that we would be
looking at things, you didn't mention anything about the college pass.
And I have been reading, with great interest, the information coming out of Boulder about the
serious concerns that they have. And I just think it would be useful. In my opinion, it just makes
sense to such an important partner, to be speaking with them about what their concerns are, and
hopefully, being able to work something out.
Although I understand that if you give somebody-- if you give something to one person, in a
fairly finite world, it means taking it away from someone else, and that's difficult. But I do think
it would be worthwhile continuing to talk with them, and I hope that's something that you do. So
I will be voting for this. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow, Madam Treasurer. We appreciate
that. And I'm tempted to say we can talk about a good start. Well, there are several of us who can
say this. It's like 15,000 lawyers at the bottom of the ocean. It's a good start.
[LAUGHS]
Sorry. Madam Vice Chair Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Just to start with, I think, though we've heard from certain
individuals-- and, I will say, from the same individuals over and over-- for a couple of months,
few months, several months, there is a great amount of the population we have not heard from.
They are the silent majority, really, and they are going to be less inclined to ride our system at
the rate.

When I look at the west area, to go from Jeffco government center just over to Sheridan station
will be $5.25. Who would want to do that? I used the example last time, 2nd and Abilene going
over to 14th and Colorado. That's going to be $5.25. Not many people are going to want to do
that.
We will hear from them later, I believe. And if, really, somebody is goal-- and I'm not going to
necessarily say it's mine-- is to increase ridership versus being a fiscal conservative on this
Board, I don't think this does this. This was supposed to have revenues certainty. I don't think it
will. It's supposed to simplify rider operator operations. I don't think it will.
So I don't know what we've gained. I kind of feel we went through this last time we did the fares.
For those of you who are on the Board, maybe you feel a little bit the same way, that we were
going to simplify things. And I don't think we really did. And then just one last point, and that is
I would agree with looking at the seniors.
And I want to correct an error that was stated by, unfortunately, two individuals here. And that is
seniors. We are only mandated to give a 50% increase during peak, not off peak hours. That's the
theory. Yet the discount, whatever I just said. It's not 100% of the time that we've got to give the
50% discount. It's only during peak hours that we have to give that.
So I've heard from seniors. That's a generation that has pensions and things the younger
generation does not have, and they are much better off than some of the current generations right
now. So I'd be happy to open that discussion. Again, that certainly would not simplify our
system, but I wanted to make that correction. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. There's actually a number of ageadvantaged people in the room who might have a different view on that, but that is exactly what
we're here to express. Chair Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Excuse me. I want to speak to my good
friend, Larry, who has issue about school children and going to school. I am a product of Denver
Public Schools, and probably nobody is as old as I am in the room. But that was the only way
you got to school when you lived in Denver. You either walked or you rode the Denver
Tramway Company. And oh, by the way, you did pay full fare. And if you were over 12, you
paid adult fare.
But that being said, Jefferson County now charges people to bus their children to school.
Jefferson County is like Denver County, one school district. So I know that Adams County has a
plethora of school districts, and I'm not sure what their process is to bus children at school.
However, I do know a person who is quite active in a charter school in Adams County, but in the
city of Arvada. And this charter school basically deals with low income children. And so in the
past, he has asked me if he couldn't get the kids that go to his school a pass. And now I can say,
if this passes, that our children in Adams County will be able to ride to school at a discount, and
so will children in Jefferson County.

But the part that I see that is so important about the school pass is school choice. And this is a big
deal, especially in conservative areas, that their kids get to go to a school of choice. And so this
is a way for parents to send their children to the school their choice.
And not only that, it also provides the means of kids going to work after school. I always had a
job after school. We were not a rich family. So you worked in my family, so I rode the bus to
work. I rode the bus to school. So this gives kids throughout the metro area an opportunity.
And it is not just for Denver Public School kids. And I have no idea how kids go to school in
Aurora, but this will give every kid in the metro area a way to go to a school of their choice. So
that's all I'll say. And I will be supporting the main motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. We appreciate that. We have a couple
of speakers who have not spoken as to the main motion yet, and so I would like to recognize
them before I come back to Director Catlin, because I believe you've spoken on the main
motion? Have you not? OK, you have not.
I'm going to ask people, if you can, please let's try to keep our comments as brief and focused as
we can now. We've been on this for a number of hours. And we have some directors who do, at
some point, have to leave. Director Catlin, you're recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. To Director Anderson's point, that's true for most
of the higher density populations. But as I mentioned last week in my remarks, that does really
very little for the school choice advocates in my area. They do not have bus access to the schools
of choice in district N. I've been sitting on the fence, going back and forth so much that I have
some splinters.
[LAUGHS]
And I just want to recognize the comments I made last month. And I do recognize that the
demographics of district N. Do not compare to those of the more urban areas, particularly in the
city of Denver, who have great needs for youth and discount. However, because of the service
cuts in my area, many of the eligible youth and low income people cannot access transit
conveniently, so they will not even be able to take advantage of these programs.
Furthermore, because of several fixed routes that have been cut over the last several years, some
of our Access-a-Ride routes have also been cut, which serve our disabled community. And I've
been really looking at a number of the Access-a-Ride vehicles, particularly in south Jeffco, and
there are numerous needs down there. So that's a concern that I really have.
I do appreciate the working group, reaching consensus. I agree with many of the components.
But in advocating for my district and ensuring-- I need to ensure that service will not be further
raised for our taxpayers as a result of this financial shift. I'm also encouraged by the
Transportation Transformation components that were talked about and the opportunities to really
look at some flexible opportunities for lower ridership areas.

We're doing that flex route on the 85. People really appreciate that, and I really want to work
with our General Manager Genova and staff over the next few months to really figure out
creative solutions with, really, the goal of increasing ridership.
That said, and I'm keeping my vote as I had at the committee. But if the initiative passes, rest
assured that I respect the majority of the Board. And I will wholeheartedly support the
implementation of this group and will work really hard to make sure that it succeeds. I also was
pleased to hear Ms. McKillop mentioned that the smart card is a really good way to track
performance, and that's something that I truly want to see. I want to see how well this is working,
and to the extent that we can get tools to assess them, or to provide metrics, so that we can see
how it's working. I'm really encouraged about that.
And also, the pledge, to update on a regular basis. But in the meantime, for those people that I
have disappointed in my vote this evening, I do want to pledge my support for the whole group
and for the community, but also ask that you also join us in figuring out some of these other
creative strategies to increase ridership on our system. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Catlin. Director Solano, you're recognized,
sir.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale. I'm going to support the pass
program working group for the low income and youth pass only under the condition that we look
at the paratransit issue in the near future. And if I could get a commitment from staff on that, I
will support it.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director, I think we've already had that, but let me let Director-- I'm
sorry, General Manager Genova speak personally to that. General Manager?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes. I believe our intent will be to take it back, bring that back next month,
let us do some analysis, and bring it through the finance committee next month.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager. Anything further, Director Solano?
Director Williams, you're recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: I would like to let Director Walker speak first and then I'd like to speak
after him, if that's all right with everyone.
DOUG TISDALE: Unless there is objection and if Director Walker agrees, and he does. Director
Walker, you're recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. This has been difficult. Most of the decisions I make are pretty clear
cut, or the decisions I get to make are pretty clear cut. But this one has been difficult. I
understand everybody's concerned with all of the issues and the Access-a-Ride fare, the revenue
loss, the ridership loss. I guess my struggle is that we don't have to do anything.

We don't have to raise fares at all. But that comes with a cost. That means the cost for the
service, the reduction in service, which doesn't serve the people who depend on us people, the
people who choose us. We raise fares, that also affects the people who depend on us and who
choose to go ride.
School is only one use-- only one mode of transport-- school is only one trip generator that
affects children. I happened to be downtown on Sunday after the Broncos game let out. The train
was packed full of adults and a lot of kids, too. So I'm sure they didn't all live in Denver. Like I
said last meeting, they don't all live in Denver. I know that.
But they get to take advantage of it. They get to go to work. My kid just started working. My
oldest kid just started working. A lot of her friends work and that's how a lot of them get around.
The school she goes to has a lot of kids from Aurora, who come in from Aurora. They go to
DPS, but they come in from Aurora, just like a lot of people from around the metro come to
downtown to work. So age-indifferent, it's for the region, wherever they live, wherever they
work, wherever they get their education.
So the businesses don't have to offer an EcoPass, or schools don't have to offer college classes.
It's a benefit, and we understand the value of that benefit. I think people who take advantage of it
understand that, and the institutions that offer it understand that. But it's a choice. It's something
that we like to promote, but we're still trying to find that balance of, what's the best balance? And
I think this is one step in working towards that balance.
So in short, I'll be supporting this because I think that we are all looking for that balance and I
think this is one step. We can always revisit in the months, in the years ahead, in the decades
ahead, I'm sure, to find that balance as the economy shifts, as the housing market shifts, as
everything shifts around. So at any rate, I'll cut it short. I'll be supporting. Thank you for your
time.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Just for the sake of the record, the Chair will
note that the Chair incorporates and reserves the right to revise and extend his remarks based
upon the comments made last time. And the Chair particularly appreciated hearing Mr. Joel
Noble quote the Chair.
[LAUGHS]
Relative to let us not let the perfect become the enemy of the good. So I thank you for that.
Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: I would like to call the question.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion to call the question. Is there a second to that motion?
BOB BROOM: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: All those in favor of calling the question, please indicate by saying, aye.

AUDIENCE: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passed unanimously. It is time
for a vote on the motion. As presented, it remains unamended. It's the original motion. Our
movement was Chair Anderson. Our second one was Chair Sisk. Please, if you would, Chairs,
cast your votes now, relative to this agenda item, as soon as the voting comes up on the screen,
which we know is absolutely imminent.
BOARD MEMBER: Praying I'll beat you to it. All right, there you go.
DOUG TISDALE: By a vote of 10 in favor and 5 opposed.
[APPLAUSE]
In your hearts, in your hearts. Do it in your hearts. 10 in favor and five opposed. The motion
passes. The no votes are second Vice Chair Deadwyler, Vice Chair Menten, Director Mihalik,
Chair Hoy, and Director Catlin. So the record reflects that by a vote of 10 to 5, that passes.
We know there are some people who will, at this point in time, perhaps want to leave the room.
If you do so, please do so quietly. We have a full evening of business ahead of us. We turn, then,
to agenda item C, the Sheridan garage unsolicited proposal. It is recommended by the Finance
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the general managers to negotiate and execute
one or more agreement suburban land conservancy ordinances concerning the lease of parking
spaces in the Sheridan station garage, according to the parameters listed in the discussion section
of the report, as submitted. May I please have a motion?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Motion.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Anderson. I heard a second from Director
Archuleta. And we have a discussion on that at this point in time. So Chair Anderson has the
movement and Director Archuleta has the second. Any discussion on that? No one is indicating
discussion. Are we ready for a vote? We are ready for a vote. Director Anderson and Director
Archuleta. Chair Anderson, if you would please make sure you vote. Director Archuleta, please
vote, and the rest of us will then vote.
And by a vote of 13 in favor and one opposed, with one no vote, that passes. Vice Chair Menten
votes in the negative and Director Deadwyler is not voting on that one. And so that motion,
relative to the garage, has passed. Is there any old business to come before this Board? any
Director having any old business, speak now. There is no indication of any old business.
Is there any new business that any director wishes to bring before the Board at this time? There is
no new business that is being reported by any director. I'm sorry, I apologize. Director Mihalik,
excuse me and forgive me, please. You are recognized.
KEN MIHALIK: No forgiveness needed. It wasn't caught on calendar, but next week, down in
Parker, some of the staff and I-- I don't know exactly who's to be attending it yet, but will be

presenting, at the mayor's request, service updates, just a general question and answer. If
anyone's interested in-DOUG TISDALE: I would say, if you can share with us date and time.
AUDIENCE: It is on the two-week calendar and I'll send it out to the full Board.
KEN MIHALIK: It captured.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: Next Thursday.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, they are getting tired. For the sake of the record, then, we will be given
advisement relative to date and time when Director Mihalik and others will be with Mayor Mike
Wade and others in the town of Parker for purposes of providing updates and further
information. We greatly appreciate that. And I apologize to the extent that I have not, in the
Chair's report, always given those individual notations, and I should so I appreciate very much
your interest and investment in that, Director Mihalik.
Any other new business any director wishes to bring to the attention of the Board at this time?
Hearing none, we return to agenda item number 15, the executive session. And that, having been
said, before addressing that motion, we will ask counsel if counsel deems to give us at least a bio
break. But General Counsel, you are recognized, sir.
Chair Tisdale, thank you. Ralph Asphaug, General Counsel. I just want to let you know that I
don't anticipate taking more than 10 minutes of your time total. I think it would be a good idea-and I've been struggling to see whether I could do this outside executive session-- I do think that
I would prefer executive session to just let you know where we stand on two negotiations we're
currently undertaking. One is with GTP. One is with RRP. But I promise I'll be extremely brief.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We will take a break for three minutes. That means
when it's 9:06, the gavel-Headquarters building. We are now referring to agenda item number 15, the Executive Session.
Denver transit partners and regional rail partners dispute resolution, processes, and negotiations
are presented as a topic, and specifically, pursuant to Colorado revised statute section 24-6402(4)(b), conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving
legal advice on specific legal questions. And Colorado revised statute section 24-6-402(4)(e)(i),
determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations, developing strategy
for negotiations, and instructing negotiators.
Those two statutory bases provide a reason and justification for this Board to convene an
executive session for the purpose of discussing Denver transit partners and regional rail partners,
dispute resolution processes, and negotiations. The statutory references, having been read into

the record, we are now prepared for a motion to convene an executive session pursuant to the
cited statutes and for the stated reasons. May I have a motion to move?
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Solano. I have a second from Chair Sisk. Is
there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, would all those in favor of the executive
session please enter your vote in the system now, Director Solano being a movement and Chair
Sisk being the second.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Solano is at the food table.
[LAUGHS]
KATE WILLIAMS: He can't vote. Vote for him.
KEN MIHALIK: No, no.
DOUG TISDALE: As soon as Director Solano votes, he can return to the table. We have a vote
of 12 in favor and no one opposed. The motion, therefore, stands as adopted.

