1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, December 9, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 7:47 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:47 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:47 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:47 PM
7:47 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:44 PM
7:47 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Committee Chair

Present
Absent
Present

7:44 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:44 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:45 PM

Paul Solano

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:47 PM

7:44 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:44 PM
7:47 PM

Director Rivera-Malpiede was absent. Directors Anderson, Daly and Lasater left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Garrett
Christnacht, Carolyn Conover, Bob Downes, Terry Emmons, Steve
Gieske, David Genova, Mike Gil, Kim Heldman, George Hovey, Terry
Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian
Morales, Brenden Morgan, Alice Osner, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Cherie Sprague, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand,
Richard Swain, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Morgan Bassey, Chris Blackwood, Tina Francone, Doug Gragg,
Eugene Howard, Daryl Kinton, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Monte
Whaley

B. Recommended Actions

• Englewood Art Shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement
with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the
operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This
agreement is for calendar year 2015 and is for an amount not to exceed
$282,000.00.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 16, 2014
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
noted that staff views this action as a housekeeping item. He
explained in 2003 the City of Englewood (Englewood) applied
for and was awarded a Congestion Mitigation Air Quality
(CMAQ) grant to implement the Englewood Art Shuttle to
connect the medical complex to the light rail station. The
ridership through the three year period was far in excess of
what was anticipated. Bruce Abel commented that the CMAQ
grant expired in 2007, at which time RTD took over funding of
the art shuttle due to the high ridership. He stated that

Englewood wished to keep the shuttle free so they agreed to
contribute in an amount equal to the fares that would have
been collected. He pointed out that ridership continues to be
very, very good.
Director James thanks this is a very good idea. The more RTD
collaborate with our colleagues in the metro area the better.
He noted that ideas and collaboration like this can be a great
way to address the first mile/last mile issue. He believes that
collaboration is growing with other cities and municipalities
because of examples like this.
Director Bagley informed the Board that he used to represent a
portion of Englewood before the redistricting so he was very
familiar with the shuttle. He thinks this is a fantastic
opportunity to partner with the community. He stated that it
has been demonstrated that the ridership is extremely high.
Director Tobiassen said he agrees that this looks to be a very
successful partnership. He believes it is similar to the 16th
Street Mall Shuttle in providing the last mile connectivity.
Director Tobiassen wonders if any employers in the area offer
EcoPasses. Bruce Abel stated that there are; he does not have
the specific names readily available but will provide Director
Tobiassen with a list.
Director Deadwyler asked if the cost of operating the shuttle
was shared equally between RTD and Englewood. Bruce Abel
explained that RTD pays for the cost of operations while
Englewood compensates RTD for the revenue we forego by
maintaining the Shuttle as a free service. Director Deadwyler
inquired how much Englewood pays RTD for fares. Brian
Matthews, Manager of Special Services, said the revenue
would be about $70K for 2015.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Longmont Fare Buy Up
Bruce Abel reminded the Board that when the Longmont Fare Buy Up was
first approved, the FTA had concerns about this being a fare change, which
would require a fare analysis. Due to this, the timeframe was scaled back to
a 6 month promotional period that could be extended an additional 18
months should Boulder County receive FTA approval for the entire period.
He noted that the FTA has since agreed this is not a fare change since
Boulder County and the City of Longmont (Longmont) are “buying up” the
fares. He said this means the program will now be in effect for the full 2
years.
Committee Chair Lubow inquired about how the program is performing.
Brian Matthews said that the Longmont buses are definitely carrying more
riders; however, he noted that it is important to determine if this is due to
more trips per existing rider or new riders. He explained that there have
been some specific questions added to the annual customer satisfaction
survey for the Longmont area to attempt to answer this question. Bruce
Abel pointed out that there was also an increase in riders during the six
months prior to the program taking effect, which has continued to grow in
the months following implementation. He said it is important to determine if
it is in fact the free fare driving up ridership or something that happened
prior.
Director Hoy highlighted Brian Matthews’ statement that at this time RTD
cannot determine if the increased ridership is due to new riders. He asked if
there would be anyway to pinpoint where the increased ridership was
coming from. Brian Matthews reiterated that hopefully those answers would
come from the additional questions that were added to the annual customer
satisfaction survey. He said staff hopes to have those results in spring of
2015.
Director Hoy wondered how the fares that Boulder County and Longmont
would pay RTD were calculated. Bruce Abel explained that the figure was
established from the farebox revenue in 2012. Boulder County and
Longmont agree to pay RTD that amount on an annualized basis in addition
to any increase in operational costs due to a need for additional service,
including costs for all Access-a-Ride trips. Director Hoy noted that between
August of 2013 and 2014 ridership has doubled, meaning RTD’s farebox
revenue would have also doubled. He asked if there was a provision for this
in the agreement. Bruce Abel stated that there was not a provision, just an
agreed upon dollar amount.

Director Folska inquired if Access-a-Ride ridership had increased at a level
commensurate with bus ridership. Brian Matthews stated that he did not
have that data yet. He said for the first several months ridership remained
the same. He believes that word might not have gotten out yet that
Longmont is paying for Access-a-Ride trips if the origin is in Longmont.
Director Folska asked if that meant that all people with disabilities could use
all paratransit service for free. Bruce Abel explained that the program only
cover Access-a-Ride, not Access-a-Cab.
Chair Sisk shared that he recently heard Mayor Coombs speak very
positively about the cooperation and that this was a very successful venture
with RTD. He thought it was good to hear that this was a cooperative
venture. He believes that, similar to what RTD is doing with Englewood,
when we work with communities we can make the difference. Chair Sisk
thanked staff for their work on this program. He said that perhaps we are
leaving money on the table but all in all this is a very positive, revenue
neutral way for RTD to increase ridership.
Director Solano wonders if the Board approves this recommended action will
RTD be setting a trend for other municipalities to come to RTD and request
“buy ups”. Bruce Abel clarified that this is not a recommended action
because the Board approved the program previously; however, he hopes it
encourages other municipalities to work with RTD on a cooperative basis to
fund services.
Director Folska asked for additional information about the survey that Brain
Matthews alluded to earlier. She inquired how the surveys were
administered (i.e. via mail, telephone, on-board, etc. as well as if they were
conducted through a consultant).
She also wondered if perhaps it could
satisfy the FTA’s “Before and After” studies. Director Folska expressed that
there might be an overlap in RTD’s survey activities. Bruce Abel stated that
he would have Dennis Yaklich, Manager of Market Research, provide her
with further information.

 Fare Task Force Update (No Back-Up)
Lacy Bell, Planning Project Manager, reminded the Board that public outreach
meetings have begun. Staff hopes to have a recommendation on fare
structure to bring to the Board for approval next month. She reiterated that
the public is being presented with the following issues: (1) a simplified, four
fare structure of local, regional/express, rail and airport categories, and (2)
pay options of pay-per-boarding with a day pass option or pay-for-time (i.e.
pay for a three hour block in which the rider may take as many trips as they

like). Lacy Bell explained that behind the scenes CH2M Hill is also modeling
RTD’s current fare structure as well as a one transfer alternative. She said
that the public input in conjunction with CH2M Hill’s continued research
would be used to come up with a recommendation.
Lacy Bell shared that there is a video on RTD’s website in English and
Spanish which has received over 400 comments. She said that the three
meetings held thus far were moderately well attended. There are still three
more meetings that will be held.
Director Folska inquired what RTD is paying CH2M Hill. Lacy Bell stated
that the contract was for $220K.
Director Deadwyler asked Lacy Bell to review the types of service again.
She wonders how this will diminish the confusion surrounding the zones.
Lacy Bell stated that the types of service are local bus, regional/express bus,
rail service, and perhaps a surcharge on bus and rail for airport service.
Bruce Abel explained that this structure would eliminate the zones
referenced by Director Deadwyler. There would be a flat fare on the rail
system. He noted that the zones is where the most confusion was when
early outreach was done with customers. He also reminded the Board that
during the peer review RTD learned that almost all of the rail systems have
moved to a flat rate fare due to similar confusion to the customers.
Director Deadwyler expressed concern about having a surcharge for traveling
to the airport. She wonders if staff has considered that many of the people
that will be traveling to the airport are workers who make little more than
minimum wage. Bruce Abel explained that the way this will be addressed is
similar to what RTD does today; even though SkyRide is considered a
“premium” fare, anyone that holds a regional monthly pass can ride the
SkyRide. He said that as the employees would buy a monthly pass this
addresses the issue since the surcharge is applied to your occasional
traveler.
Committee Chair Lubow shared that at the meetings she attended there
were many comments that people felt it was unfair to pay more for rail than
the equivalent bus service. She asked how that would be dealt with if there
was just one rail fare. Bruce Abel explained that this will really be addressed
when the fare level is set, which is yet to be determined.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten wondered if there was any further information about the person
that was killed along the West line back in October. She inquired if perhaps the
wayside warning system might help prevent these types of fatalities in the future.
David Genova, Assistant General Manager of Safety, Security and Facilities, said

that the Golden Policy Department is still waiting for the autopsy report to finalize
the investigation. He explained that based on video surveillance it appears that the
person entered RTD’s track area at an at-grade crossing. Austin Jenkins, Assistant
General Manager of Rail Operations, explained that the wayside warning system
would only be for RTD workers. As a train approaches an area in which people are
working, an alarm goes off in the cab as well as on the worker. He said this is just
an overlay of the numerous safety procedures already in place.
General Manager Washington asked Marla Lien, General Counsel, to give an update
on the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition’s (CCDC) lawsuit related to light rail.
Marla Lien explained that the lawsuit appears to be very similar to the lawsuit
CCDC filed against RTD related to buses and keeping the wheelchair securement
areas open. She stated that it was filed in federal court but RTD has not yet been
served. CCDC has asked RTD to waive service; RTD has until December 31, 2014
to agree and then we will have 30 days to move to complaint.
Director Hoy asked why RTD would waive service. Marla Lien explained that if we
waive service we are afforded a 10 day bonus to move to complaint.
Director Folska said that it was her understanding that boarding from the high
blocks was also an issue in the complaint. She believes that the lawsuit is
requesting that only people with mobility devices be allowed to board from the high
blocks. She stated that the definition of a mobility device really needs to be
considered as the white cane used by visually impaired may not meet the definition.
Marla Lien stated that is why RTD would move to the complaint, not necessarily
answer it. There may be claims that we may dismiss, claims we may admit, and
claims we may deny. She said RTD is not conceding we would do everything they
ask.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 13, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 8:19 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

