2023-02-28
Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Perfect. Thank you. I will now call the Tuesday, February 28 RTD Board meeting to
order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM on February 28. I respectfully ask everyone to remain muted
unless you're recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that until further
notice the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio
and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com, and a live stream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
We are going to start in a minute with the land acknowledgment and the Pledge of Allegiance that we do
every week. But I want to take just a couple of minutes first to acknowledge what a huge loss we've had
in our community. Chief Joel Fitzgerald's son, as everyone here knows, was murdered while protecting
his community as a police officer at Temple University. I think I speak for all of the RTD family in saying
that our hearts go out to the Chief and his family and to his colleagues in the transit police and other
departments here at RTD.
It's a terrible tragedy. I looked at the story in The Philadelphia Inquirer about the funeral, and I read some- I'm sure many of you have about what a special person Chris was. The governor of Pennsylvania Josh
Shapiro told the crowd at the funeral that Chris was the very best of us, a strong, tough cop with a good
heart. Off duty, he was an avid runner, and his uncle Bishop Marrero said he often blended his sport with
passion for anti-violence work. He ran with groups of Black and Brown people through Philly
neighborhoods most impacted by gun crime, and he was often the one at the front holding the banner that
said stop the violence, according to Bishop Marrero.
Others spoke about Chris's infectious laugh and smile, his hardworking spirit, and his devotion to work
and family. And Chief Fitzgerald wrote me last week, "Our son was everything to everyone. He did the
right thing, even when no one was looking." This has been a really hard time for the Chief and his family
and also for our transit police and other employees. I've heard from so many of you on the Board. I ask
that we take a moment of silence at this time for all of those impacted and for Chris.
Thank you. We'll move on to the Pledge of Allegiance. And Director Harwick, would you please lead us in
the Pledge of Allegiance?
IAN HARWICK: Happy to. I pledge allegiance-ALL: --to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under
God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Bouquet, would you lead us in the land acknowledgment, or would you
read the land acknowledgment please?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, I can, Chair. The Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our
buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other

contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who
have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May
this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity
of the native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions in
the district as we move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. I'll now call the roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom. Not yet. Hopefully he will join us. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am here as well. And I'll try once again. Has Director Broom joined us? OK,
there are no retirees for this evening. The next retiree recognition will occur during the March 28 Board
meeting.
Now we come to the time of public participation. Before I open public participation, I'd like to note that the
code of conduct action item has been postponed to the June series of meetings. I want to say that this is
the action item on the amendments to the code of conduct.
This matter comes up in a highly unusual way that I want to recognize. The Ops and Safety Committee
voted 5 to 2 to move the code of conduct amendments forward to the full Board of this meeting.
Afterwards the event where Chief Fitzgerald's son was murdered happened because he was so involved
with this these amendments to the code of conduct, because the Chief was, and because it's been such a
difficult time for our transit police and other employees, the Executive Committee decided to take it off the
Board agenda and postpone it to the June meeting, the analysis of these amendments.
I believe this Board would have made the same decision, and we considered just making a motion to
postpone. However, people coming in tonight would not have known at the time of public comment that
the code of conduct is being postponed. So that was the reason for this meeting. I don't foresee-- for this
postponement. I don't foresee the Executive Committee needing to take that action at all in the future.
And certainly if people want to discuss it, we could do that later during other matters.
During this time, since it is postponed, our staff is working on a plan for public engagement. They'll be
developing an outreach strategy around these amendments and including a communications strategy, a
media outreach to make sure people know about it, outreach events and an online tool to collect input
and comments. I've asked Miss Johnson if we can discuss the public engagement plan or as a discussion
item in more detail with the Ops and Safety Committee, which is next week.
All right for public engagement, this is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would
like to address the Board. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please have your virtual
hand-- please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your
turn to speak.
If you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in
this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to
be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board or if any
member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and they will have up to three minutes to provide comment. Has
anyone raised their hand to speak?

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hey, Chair. Yes, we have four speakers right now, and our first speaker is Ana
Miller.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. Say it again. Ada?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Ana Miller.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ana Miller. OK. Ms. Miller, if you would. Please state your name, and then you may
proceed.
ANA MILLER: Good afternoon. My name is Ana Miller. I am a houseless outreach coordinator. I work with
the houseless advocacy group, and I wanted to take a quick moment. I understand that you have pushed
the thing back until June, but I do want to take a moment to talk about the proposed changes to the code
of conduct. As somebody who was houseless, I want you guys to not notice that there is some major
problems with the way these conducts are being put.
I don't believe it's right to kick people off of a train who have paid, yet they may be homeless, but they
have paid their fare. They paid their $6 fare, I don't see any reason why they should have to be allowed to
ride a train. If they're not doing anything illegal, not smoking drugs-- I'm not saying they should be allowed
to do that or anything. But if they paid their fare, they've had their $6 day fare, I see no reason that they
should be kicked off the train.
Plus it's a violation of your Civil Rights for a cop to ask you your final destination when you are a paying
customer on the train. Secondly, the one that has to do with the platforms. How are you supposed to
enforce that if somebody is just literally waiting for somebody at the airport? I mean, this basically makes
you really realize that only RTD police are going to be going after the people they deem houseless.
They're not going to go after the average Joe on platform.
So these are-- you need to turn around and look at this is a bad situation. You are going to be hurting
people who are just riding the train to stay warm. Again, I get the understanding if they are breaking the
rules. But if they paid their fare, what is the problem with them riding the train back and forth and just
sitting on the train?
That's for also the dozing. That is another issue. I used to be a chef. I can tell you when you work 16
hours, and you look dirty and tired, yeah, you may fall asleep on the train. I don't think it's fair that I should
get kicked off the train. That is all I have to say about it. I hope you take it into consideration that you're
really basically very much just hurting the houseless and the poor community more than anyone else
when it comes to these new changes to your code of conduct. I thank you, and I appreciate your time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Ms. Miller. We appreciate it. Who is our next speaker, Ms.
Parish?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Stephanie Kelly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Kelly. If you would, please state your name and then proceed.
STEPHANIE KELLY: Thank you. My name is Stephanie Kelly, and I am wanting to address the Board for
concerns that I have about the safety on the light rail. I actually bought our house specifically so I could
walk to the light rail. I've been taking it to work for eight years now.

It's something that I depend on, and I really enjoy. But unfortunately, it's become so unsafe that I have
had to stop riding. I've been exposed to meth, heroin, needles, sexual harassment. I understand and I
completely empathize that our unhoused need resources and help, but the unsafe nature and the
behavior on the light rail and public transportation is not the place.
I support that RTD has come up with a way to address these problems, and that is their role to keep their
riders safe and keep their communities safe. So I just wanted to express my huge concern as a
community member and someone who has ridden the light rail for years and years and years and
unfortunately can no longer do so. So I just wanted to express my concerns and also my support for the
actions that RTD is taking to try to address this and to make our ride safe. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Ms. Kelly. Ms. Parrish, who's next?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Scott Baldermann.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Baldermann, if you would state your name and then proceed.
SCOTT BALDERMANN: Yeah, good evening, Board of Directors. Thank you for the opportunity to speak
tonight. My name is Scott Baldermann. I'm on the DPS Board of Education. I'm the representative for
Southeast Denver. I want to be very clear I'm speaking on behalf of myself tonight, not for the District, not
for the Board of Education.
But I wanted to come with words of appreciation. I know public comment a lot of times can be negative,
but I want to send out a big thank you for considering the idea of providing a zero fare for individuals that
are 19 years old and younger. From DPS's perspective, as you can imagine, the process for distributing
paper tickets over the last few years is incredibly inefficient.
It has to go from RTD to the district down to the principals then down onto the students. And so how
which students receive those tickets, I worry many times if those tickets probably don't even get into the
hands of the students that need it the most. And I worry a lot of those tickets are sitting in drawers at
school. So this will resolve, in my opinion, a very inefficient process.
The Board of Education has-- the DPS Board of Education has six priorities that we call end statements.
Our first end statement is on equity, and our sixth end statement is on climate action. And I think this
initiative covers both of those so well for RTD, as well as DPS. Access to schools in a school choice
system is incredibly important, and encouraging expanded use of public transportation is huge.
And from our climate action initiatives we have, there was a study done in 2000, an independent study
done in 2018 that showed that 25% of traffic in Denver is caused by parents driving their kids to school.
And right now, 67% of students are driven to school. So this will possibly have a huge impact on reducing
the amount of congestion on the street.
And most importantly, I see this as a huge investment in ridership for RTD. If we can get these students
at a young age riding the bus, I think that is going to be a fantastic investment in the future of Denver and
in RTD as well. So overall, this is a win-win for both DPS and RTD.
I know you're not voting on this in the near future. I do plan to come back when it is time to vote, so
please reach out if there's anything I can do to support. If you need additional information, I can provide
information to the Board if you have any questions. So again, thank you for your service. And I hope this
passes sometime in the future. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you for your service, Mr. Baldermann as well, and thanks for coming to
speak to us. We appreciate our partnership when we are able to work with DPS. Who is our next
speaker?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Molly McKinley.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. McKinley, welcome. Please state your name.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Good evening, Board and staff. Thanks for holding this space for public comments
this evening. My name is Molly McKinley, and I'm a policy director for the Denver Streets Partnership, a
coalition of community organizations advocating for people friendly streets. And I am about to board a bus
momentarily, so I will keep this brief.
I'm here tonight to thank you for listening to stakeholders and community members who were concerned
about the process regarding the code of conduct updates. We appreciate you taking a step back on this
and are glad to hear that there will be a public process regarding changes, which we believe will result in
a better policy. We look forward to engaging our network of partners and individual supporters as more
information on the process becomes available.
I'd also like to express our condolences to Chief Fitzgerald and his family during this difficult time. Thank
you for your time this evening, and I welcome opportunity to further discuss these issues with all of you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much, Ms. McKinley. Is there anyone else in the queue, Ms. Parish?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yes, we have one more, a phone call, the number ending in 6703?
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, 6703, if you would please state your name, you may proceed. If you're there,
6703, you're probably on mute.
DENISE FOWLER: Can you hear me now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can. Yes.
DENISE FOWLER: OK. Yes. My name is Denise Fowler. [INAUDIBLE] My name is Denise Fowler, and
the reason I'm calling, I have a couple of things, and they're primarily suggestions. I just found out today
that you guys have redid the bus stops on the 16th Street mall detour. And I was unaware.
I was standing next to a sign that said 16th Street mall ride because of the remodeling, and the bus driver
did not stop, opened her window, and said, "This is no longer a bus stop." I just left Union Station and got
a copy of the map with the bus stops where they're going to be stopping, and you have two, four, six-- you
have seven heading toward Union Station and six that go towards Civic Center stations. And the stops
are kind of far apart, and they're not clearly marked, and you guys put a notification outfit, but you put it
out via the website.
For us people that don't deal with technology that well, it would be kind of appreciated if you do either a
PSA through the normal media or something else. My other comment that I would like to make is the
condition of your bus stops when you-- because they're trashy, dirty, garbage cans spilling over. I have
contacted RTD and been referred to outdoor promotions because evidently they rent the space from you
guys. But I tried to contact outdoor promotions, and I have not gotten a response.

So I'm just asking is there any way you guys can reach out to your renter and have them do maintenance
on their bus stops every-- I drive to zero line, and every stop from Alameda, where I get on, to downtown,
where I get off, the garbage cans are full and overflowing, and if the wind blows, there's trash everywhere.
So I don't know if there's any other way that they can be contacted so they can do their maintenance.
Either they're paying you rent, or you're paying them to do some type of maintenance, and it's just not
being done. And that's pretty much what I have to say in regards to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks so much, Ms. Fowler. We appreciate the comments. Those are helpful
comments. OK, is that it, Ms. Parish, in terms of speakers?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Correct. There are no additional hands raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think there were several emailed comments. Is it best for you to read the names
and email subject lines into the record, or those will-- they be in the record? What's our status there?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yeah. I can read them. There were 10 public comment emails. Naomi Amaha, the
Denver Foundation, thank you. Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit code of conduct. Mike [?
Orshera, ?] the new policy. City and County of Broomfield, May 2023 service changes letter of support.
District B resident proposed changes to the RTD code of conduct. DPS letter to RTD in support of zero
fare for youth. Becky English of the Sierra Club RTD police guidelines stakeholder engagement. Megan
Johnson, concerns regarding proposed changes to the RTD code of conduct. Jamie Lewis, code of
conduct rules. And Samantha Metzger, support for zero fare for youth program.
And those will be added to the full transcript once it's available for public transparency.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much and thanks to that people wrote in. With no other
participants in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this time. And next on our agenda
are the external entities reports. We have several guests with us tonight. The Advisory Committee for
People with Disabilities, ACPD, report will be interesting it will be presented by Earl Lee. Mr. Lee, the floor
is yours.
EARL LEE: Just want to make sure you can hear me at this point.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can.
EARL LEE: Thank you. Great. The ACPD had its first 2023 meeting on February 7, and we discussed a
number of things. Several people from the ACPD committee, including myself, along with members of the
public, particularly the vision impaired blind community, attended a preview of the latest mall paver format
that is going to be used.
This has been an ongoing project that we have attended several times trying to find an acceptable tactile
surface that would meet all of the city's requirements. We were very pleased to be a part of this. Greg
Martinez, a member of the ACPD Committee, and myself, along with a couple of others had a discussion
regarding a small change to what they are proposing. That would be the inclusion of a small lip that would
allow for a little more tactile separation between the pedestrian surfaces and the transit way.
They have been taken into consideration, and we have not heard back from the city or Downtown Denver
Partnership, anyone with regards to that. The ACPD charter has been updated to include a clearer

recruitment process, more explicitly defined meeting schedule, and the inclusion of ex-officio members
and establishment of the attendance policy. Streamline the recruiting process, the meeting schedule, and
introducing the attendance policy will ensure that member selection happens consistently in a timely
manner and that members are more aware of the importance of the role for the ACPD.
Finally, we have discussed the ex-officio membership has been established as part of the ACPD.
Currently, there are general members, which are both representatives of organizations and members of
the public. The change to the charger establishes the ex-officio membership, which allows organizations
to establish a membership in perpetuity to provide feedback in non-voting capacity to the members of the
ACPD and RTD. This is an effort to reduce the number of general members representing organizations
and in a more-- and more membership opportunities for general members of the public and the
community.
Organizations will still be able to send representatives to the meeting, but ex-officio members will have no
voting privileges. That's all that I have for this evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Are there any questions for Mr. Lee? Great. Tonight we also
have with us our public affairs teams that work with the state and local elected officials and others. Our
first presenter tonight is Jenifer Brandeberry. Jenifer, you are on.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Can you hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Good evening, everyone. It's great to be here and to see all of you and really
appreciate the opportunity to give you a brief update of activity under the golden dome. It's hard to believe
as I sit here tonight that the 2023 legislative session is almost halfway over. The official halfway mark is
March 9, and the session will end May 8.
As you all know there was a historic election of large Democratic majorities in both the House and the
Senate this past year, which has led to a lot of activity of legislation being introduced this year so far. In
general, some of the large themes are issues around housing, so that clean energy and the environment,
health care, gun safety, and various bills on land use. As you know, in the state of the state, the governor
spent a lot of time talking about housing. His housing agenda and big package has yet to even be
introduced as we talk tonight.
I think one thing of note that is different than the past legislative session is the current Colorado budget.
As you all recall, we had lots and lots of money flow into the state because of the pandemic and federal
ARPA funds. Those are no longer really coming into the state, and the budget situation is a little tighter.
So as these historic Democratic majorities debate lots and lots of bills, I think it's important to note that
any of the bills that have appropriations associated with them will be parked in their chambers in the
appropriations committees.
The budget will be introduced in the Senate this year on March 27. It usually takes about a week. Then it
will move over to the House. What we're hearing in general is that each chamber's bills that are sitting in
their appropriations committees that have appropriations will have at best $20 million, $15 to $20 million
to fund all those legislative priorities. So stay tuned on what actually gets across the finish line.
On the good note-- good news front for RTD, it's not a huge transportation heavy session. We did do our
statutorily required presentation to the joint house and Senate Transportation Committee earlier this year.

I think it was very well received by General Manager Johnson's remarks, as well as Board Chair
Guissinger. We do a fairly regular update to our state stakeholders just on various activities that the RTD
Board is taking action on. And again, those communications have been well received, and we appreciate
Michael Davies and the government affairs team working with us to get those communications out so that
all of our stakeholders are aware of the good work that you're doing.
Of note we have one piece of legislation this year that we are proactively supporting. The Board has
taken a proactive position in House Bill 1101. 1101 extends the ozone season transit grant program. As
you recall, we supported last legislative session the Spare the Air bill that Senator Winter and
Representative Gray carry this year it is started in the house with Representative Bacon. And I'm happy to
note it came out of the house.
Senator Winter's the prime sponsor in the Senate, and it was heard this week in the Senate.
Transportation Committee A came out of committee on a unanimous vote. I'd like to thank Michael Davies
and Chair Guissinger for their testimony. What the bill really does is allow any additional grant money
that's sitting in the Governor's Energy Office to be able to roll forward, and that program and that money
can allow the district to expand their Spare the Air program.
I think finally, what this legislation has given our team at the Capitol an opportunity to do is continue to
build relationships with the new members of the legislature and communicate about the good work that
you're doing. So we really appreciate the opportunity to be here and to partner with you all and happy to
answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much. Does anyone have questions? Nope? Great. Thanks so much for
joining us. Our last speaker from Catalyst Public Affairs is Jennifer Webster. Jennifer, you may take over.
JENNIFER WEBSTER: Thank you. Can everybody hear me? Can't see me though, but I can see you.
Thanks, Madam Chair and members of the Board. Appreciate the opportunity to speak with you all
tonight.
Jennifer Webster with Catalyst Public Affairs, your local government outreach support for the Board and
for RTD. I'll be really brief tonight. I wanted to take a couple of minutes just to frame for the Board the
approach that we're taking with a super intentional local government outreach effort in support of RTD
and all of their programs that we've been building on for the last few months.
Some of you have engaged with us so far in some of our efforts to reach out at the county level. We've
been trying to convene meetings with our county commissioners, who then subsequently bring together
all of their municipally elected local officials as part of broader meetings. And we've had a couple of those
meetings with Adams and Jefferson and Douglas counties. And of course, as always, we engage with the
Metro Mayors Caucus.
But what we found as part of the survey that you all are familiar with that was unveiled last month that we
need to be a little bit more intentional at the city council level. And so our latest effort with the local
government outreach is, once again, to be super intentional. We've initiated contact with every city
manager and county manager within the RTD district to make sure that our local elected partners are
aware that we are available as a resource and that we're very interested in coming to present at city
councils to the extent those councils have issues that they would like to hear.

And unsurprisingly, we've had a lot of interest. We're getting a lot of responses back from many city
councils. The goal with some of those conversations will be to work with you all, as I know you all are
working on your personal engagement plans as a Board. We want to make sure that we're coordinating
with your schedules and with the RTD staff and identifying those opportunities where we can engage with
those city councils. So stay tuned on that. I believe, Chair Guissinger, that we're potentially going to meet
in person next month as a Board, and I imagine that we'll have a whole lot more detail to share if we brief
you all at that point.
Separate from those city council meetings, the Board should be aware there is a meeting next week on
March 8 at 7:30. This is the first meeting of all of the local elected officials within the Regional
Transportation District that is part of the subregional service council conversation. You all are aware that
we've kicked off those SSE meetings with our partners in local government.
Had a couple of meetings at the end of last year. The first meeting where we will convene all of the locals
as I mentioned, is this coming-- I'm sorry, a week from-- on March 8 next week. So that is on the Board
agenda and hopefully everybody can engage and cooperate in that meeting. I think that's going to be-- we
want to make sure that we let our elected officials know in that meeting that this is not the only time that
we want to engage with them and this is going to be an iterative process.
So look forward to talking to each of you individually and working with your schedules and having a
network of ambassadors engage more intentionally with our local elected officials. Happy to answer any
questions.
IAN HARWICK: Thanks so much, Jen. Are there questions? Director Williams, I see your real hand.
KATE WILLIAM: Thank you, trying to get my hand up. For the meeting on March 8, I only have a call in. Is
it a Zoom meeting, or is there more? Is it a call in only situation?
JENNIFER WEBSTER: Yeah, Director Williams. There should be a link forthcoming for that meeting. I'll
make sure that you get it. I think it's a webinar.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else? Thank you so much. We really appreciate all the great work that
both of your teams, both of the Jennifers' teams and your partners and others are providing for us. Now
we have our committee reports, the zero emission vehicle Ad Hoc Committee report. Committee Chair
Dishell, would you like to report?
BOBBY DISHELL: Sure. I'll give a brief report. Earlier this month, the Ad Hoc Committee hosted a
roundtable with other folks within the electrification space, staff to prepare a targeted set of questions,
which I think really helped facilitate a strong discussion. The next steps coming out of that committee are
the staff are coming back to that committee in March, which would be sometime next month. And in order
to provide an updated scope of work to hopefully then go out to bid for the creation of a complete
transition plan. That's all. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. And I believe you are up again for the Audit Committee report.
BOBBY DISHELL: the audit Committee-- thank you to those of you who filled out your enterprise risk
assessment. It helps us greatly. The Audit Committee is in the process of scheduling their March meeting,
and I look forward to providing an update after that separately.

Our external auditors have begun their audit of the agency, so the enterprise risk assessment was for
internal audit. We also are separately and have engaged Plante Moran as our external auditors, and they
have begun their process. They will be providing us with regular written updates on which we will work to
make sure those get forwarded to the full Board for everyone's review. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Finance and planning, Committee Chair Tisdale. Do you have-DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to address the Board
and to advise that the committee minutes are included in your Board packet. They describe the two items
that we have brought forward as recommended action items this evening, along with a reference to the
discussion that we had about the fare study.
And I want you to know, as you heard in the public comments, that we have received very positive
reaction to the presentation that was made by staff to the Finance Committee relative to the proposed
changes in fares. So follow that closely as we go forward. It will be coming before the Board at some
point after it goes through the Finance and Planning Committee. And then next, our regularly scheduled
meeting of the Finance and Planning Committee for March has been adjusted because of the timing of
the American Public Transportation Association Legislative Conference in Washington DC. Therefore, the
Finance Committee will be meeting on March the 7th instead of what had previously been scheduled as
March 14.
So we thank you for that and look forward to having everyone participate. That's the end of my report,
Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Tisdale. Operations and Safety Committee. Committee Chair
Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to note, as did Director Tisdale, that the information on the
Operations and Safety Committee meeting is attached as part of this pocket and available on our website.
The meeting was held virtually on Wednesday, February 15. Seven committee members were in
attendance. There were no external entity reports, although the CEO Debra Johnson did read a
statement during our meeting.
There was one recommended action regarding the revisions to the existing 2023 Code of Conduct and
service suspension policy, which read for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the code of conduct
and service suspension policy. The Operations and Safety Committee didn't vote to move this action
forward for consideration and discussion by the entire Board to allow public comment and to give all 15
directors the opportunity to speak to this issue. As the Chair reported earlier, the directors who make up
the Executive Committee voted at a later date to move the discussion or action on this issue to June of
this year.
There were two discussion items on the agenda. The first was an update from the RTD police
department, and the second one was the May 2023 service change proposals. The next Operations and
Safety Committee meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, March 8. It is a slight deviation from our standard
meeting cadence, as Director Tisdale noted earlier. That concludes my report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. All right, the next item is approval of Board meeting
minutes and committee reports. The Board and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. I
would note that Director Sloan provided the Board Office with one correction to the February 15

Operations and Safety Committee minutes regarding the vote record on the amendments to the code of
conduct. The minutes had her listed as a no vote instead of a yes vote, which has been corrected. Are
there any other corrections to any of the minutes? OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. Did I miss somebody?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guzman, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman, yes, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: The agenda, I think you may have skipped an item. The Performance Committee
report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So sorry. Thank you. Committee Chair Davidson. Would you like to give us a
report.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Guzman. I was prepared to raise my
hand before we moved to the next one. Yes, thank you.
The Performance Committee did convene in February. We had two discussion items on the agenda. The
first was with regards to the committee priorities and our path forward. The second was with regards to
our meeting cadence.
We had a good discussion. The committee members provided feedback as to how the process worked
last year. We all agreed that our ability to measure the performance of the agency as well as our general
manager and CEO could be improved upon. And we collected some feedback about some of the ideas
about how that could be improved upon.
The decision we ultimately arrived at is that we will be meeting at least three times monthly before we set
what will become our ongoing cadence. So we will meet in April after the retreat. We'll meet again in May,
and we'll meet again in June.
During those three meetings, we'll work on constructing what our priorities will be. We'll work on some
ideas for how to improve the Performance Committee, improve our ability to measure agency
performance and CEO and general manager performance. The committee got some homework, and what
we all agreed to do before the next meeting was A, talk to the full Board at the retreat to solicit ideas and
feedback with regards to the Performance Committee priorities. We also agreed to review some of the
key performance indicators that are contained within the strategic plan and to dialogue with CEO and
General Manager Johnson at our next meeting about those KPIs and the ways in which we are
measuring performance against our strategic priorities.
We agreed to review our executed employment agreement and contract with Ms. Johnson. We agreed to
also review the Gallagher report that was presented to the committee last year. All of the committee
members will come fresh with that information, and we'll continue our discussion items with regards to
cadence as well as adjustments that we'll make to performance measurement.
So look for the schedule to come out soon for those next three meetings, the first of which will be in April
after the retreat. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Director Davidson, Second Vice Chair Davidson. All right, is
there any objective objection to considering the minutes of the Board meetings and the committee
meetings-ERIK DAVIDSON: Madam Chair, I see a hand raised with-LYNN GUISSINGER: Who's behind that hand? Is that Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Davidson, you did state that you were going to have three meetings a month. I
think you meant to say-ERIK DAVIDSON: My apologies. We'll be meeting monthly three times, and then we may move to a
cadence that is not monthly. Yeah, apologies for the confusing phrasing.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I did have a note on the Operations and Safety Committee
meeting minutes under item E. It states that the vote on the main motion passed unanimously, but it
passed 5 to 2. And I wasn't sure if that's what you were referencing previously in addition to the other item
that needed to be amended, but I did want to flag that for consideration.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you for flagging that. I don't think that was made. But we will make that
correction. Thank you. With that correction, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for the
following meetings, January 31, 2023 Board meeting, February 14, 2023 Finance and Planning
Committee meeting, February 15 2023 Performance Committee, February 15, 2023 Operations and
Safety Committee, February 23, 2023, Executive Committee. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, I hear Director Williams. I missed who the second was. Who was-- who
else-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Director Guzman.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Williams is the movement, and Director Guzman is the second. Is
there any discussion on this motion? All right. Are there any no votes on this action?
Great. The motion passes. I don't know-- I don't believe Director Broom has joined us. Is that right? OK,
motion passed I believe 14 to 0 with no no votes and no abstentions.
We are at the Chair's report. And my report tonight, I will keep it simple. You've heard some of the things
I've been doing testifying to the legislative committees and meeting along with Jenifer Brandeberry and
Michael Davidson and our team with some of the sponsors of House Bill 1101. And it has passed the
House and has passed out of committee in the Senate.
So it will be moving on. It was great to see it passed unanimously out of the Senate committee. A
highlight I guess of the last time was the last month was the Northwest Mayors and Commissioners trip
that Vice Chair, Second Vice Chair Davidson and Ms. Johnson, Mr. Davies and I all went on. The main

ask there was to support the raise grant that Boulder County has applied for, and RTD and CDOT and all
the others have supported to finish the $130 million funding for Highway 119 that we are participating in.
Without going through too many of the things I've been doing, I want to talk about just a couple of things.
A quick update on two searches that we are undertaking. The Board Office Executive Manager search, I
understand that the HR team has received the resumes. Directors Buzek and Bouquet have agreed to
help with the first review of the resumes, and then we will move them forward in a manner similar to the
last round.
We also have an RFQ out for a facilitator for the Board retreat. The retreat is March 25 and will be at the
Colorado History Museum. I've had some discussion with some. I've been thinking about things we might
want to do. The performance committee has made some suggestions as you heard a minute ago.
I think the best way to move forward is that I'll put some of these thoughts and some of the things I've
heard that sound like good options for the retreat into an email, send them out, and request your input.
Also, the facilitator, I think we'll be able, hopefully, to hire a facilitator by sometime next week. And that
person will be doing-- we have asked them in the scope of work to do, ask him or her to do the same
thing that we did last year where they make individual phone calls. They'll make an appointment with you
and make individual calls to talk to you about what you'd like to do at the retreat.
Some of the things that have come up I think Jen Webster mentioned that she's working on reaching out
to city councils. I think a lot of us, even those of us who have close relationships with our local
governments, there often with the mayors or one or two city council people. So what I'm hoping is that we
will come out of the retreat with a very hands on plan, each of us have an engagement plan, and figure
out how we work with staff on this. If we set up meetings, staff would be attending some of those but
probably not all.
And we've talked with Mr. Summers, with Stuart Summers about coming up with talking points, maybe a
draft PowerPoint for Board members to take and go out and speak to our groups so that they are hearing
from us and getting regular communication. That, of course, is a suggestion, and we'll be open to your
recommendations and wants in that.
We might want to talk about Tabor and our overall financial picture. That will be looming soon, and we
need to be thinking about what we're doing next on that. And I've heard from I think Director Bouquet at
one point in the meeting last month and others that we may want to talk about some of the policies and
approaches we take as a Board. Some of this may be part of what the performance committee is doing.
But I'd like to hear what you have to say on other things that we should be addressing. So that is I think all
that I have in my report today. Are there any questions or comments?
Okey dokey. Then it is our CEO report. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening to you, Board members and
to all of you virtually assembled assembled. I am Debra Johnson serving as a General Manager and CEO
of the Regional Transportation System. This evening, I will share with you the following information
centered around the agency's four strategic priorities.
Regarding community value, I will discuss a number of meetings and events in which I have engaged
since the last regularly rescheduled Board meeting, including the UITP North America forum, which was

held in Jacksonville, Florida beginning in February, as well as the commuter rail industry peer review
session also held in Jacksonville immediately following the conclusion of the UITP conference.
The Northwest Mayor and Commission's Coalition Advisory mission, of which you just heard about from
the Chair, a panel discussion held as part of the joint Board meeting of the Downtown Denver
Partnership, a meeting I attended with Nuria Fernandez, the administrator of the Federal Transit
Administration, and lastly, a panel discussion that took place during the annual Southwest Transit
Association Conference that was held in Aurora last week.
Also related to community value, I will share information regarding the annual moving forward conference
hosted by Bicycle Colorado. Speaking to the priorities of community value, customer excellence, and
employee ownership, I will discuss the Telephone Information Center hours of operation regarding
customer excellence. I will share an update regarding the winter back to work day campaign. In relation to
employee ownership, I will touch on a multi-day career fair currently being held in Boulder, as well as two
employee appreciation days that occur in March each year.
Regarding community values, from February 1 through the 3rd, I attended the UITP North America forum
in Jacksonville, Florida. For those who may be unfamiliar, UITP was founded in 1885. It is the
International Association of Public Transport. The initialism is abbreviation of the French name.
The group is focused on the pursuit of sustainable urban mobility. During the conference I participated in
two panel discussions. The first discussion was in relation to the rail industry rapid adoption of smart
technologies and innovative digital solutions to improve safety, system utilization, operations, and
maintenance. Michael [INAUDIBLE] from [INAUDIBLE] served as the panel's moderator, and I was joined
on the panel by Cyril Aubin-- he's the managing director from the RATP group-- [? Anne ?] [? Willington,
?] [? Tapanta, ?] head of digital strategy and innovation from Hitachi Rail.
The second panel focused on the evolving business model of public transportation agency during which
the panelists discussed how transit agencies can adapt their systems to be able to provide services that
provide a seamless travel experience for customers and that ensure equity, accessibility, and efficiency
while incorporating new technologies and mobility options.
The discussion was moderated by the Jacksonville Transportation Authority CEO Nathaniel P. Ford, Sr.,
and I was joined on the panel by Lilli Matson, Chief Safety, Health, and Environmental Officer for
transport for London, Mohamed, Mezghani-- he's the Secretary General of UITP-- as well as Dr. Shawn
Wilson, the Secretary of Louisiana's Department of Transportation, and the Chair of the Transportation
Research Board, and Dorval Carter, the president of the Chicago Transit Authority and the Chair of the
American Public Transportation Association.
Immediately following the close of the conference on Friday, February 3, I participated in a fleet of rail
industry peer review for the first commuter rail project, which is an undertaking by the Jacksonville
Transportation Authority, which would connect the city of Jacksonville with Saint Augustine, Florida
approximately 40 miles to the Southeast. I was joined by representatives from various transit agencies
around the country, representatives from the city of Jacksonville, the city of Augustine, the neighboring
counties, as well as JTA along with consultants from Deloitte and WSP.
The following week, as you heard from our Chair, Chair Guissinger, Second Vice Chair Erik Davidson,
and Government Relations Officer Michael Davies, participated in the Northwest Mayors and
Commissioners Coalition annual advocacy effort in Washington DC. The RTD's delegation participated in

the sessions to support Boulder county's US Department of Transportation building American
infrastructure with sustainability and equity, commonly referred to as race, which is the grant application
for transit improvements for Colorado 119 between Boulder and Longmont.
During this visit, the group met with members of the Colorado congressional delegation and their staff as
well as representatives from the US Department of Transportation, the Federal Railroad Administration,
the Federal Transit Administration, Amtrak, as well as congressional committee staffers. Additionally,
Michael Davis as well as myself, a second Vice Chair Davidson and our federal advocate, [? Patti ?] [?
Deutsch, ?] participated in some committee meetings as well with congressional staffers, specifically the
House Banking and Transportation Committee.
On Wednesday, February 15, 2023, as part of the Downtown Denver Partnership combined Board
meeting with the Denver Civic Ventures, the Downtown Denver Incorporated, I was invited to participate
in a panel discussion entitled "The Critical Role of Transportation and the Future of Downtown Denver."
The discussion touched on shifting transportation behaviors, mobility choice, system planning,
environmental sustainability, and public safety. Downtown Denver's partnership Present and CEO
Courtney Barrett served as the moderator, and I was joined on the panel by a representative from
Denver's department of transportation and infrastructure.
This past Wednesday, February 22, I met with FTA administrator Nuria Fernandez, as well as the deputy
administrator Veronica Vanderpool, accompanied by Matthew [? Weldis, ?] who serves as the Executive
Director for the FTA, along with our regional FTA administrator that represents region 8. And we
discussed requirements from the bipartisan infrastructure law related to the public transit agency state
plan, the additional funding for [INAUDIBLE] repair and RTD's emphasis on its assets as it relates to
[INAUDIBLE] repair and the status of our agency's overall transit service delivery and its nexus to people
with power.
Administrator Fernandez was in the Denver Metro area to participate in the 2023 annual conference of
the Southwest Transit Association, or SWTA. So recognizing that on Thursday, February 23 as part of the
annual southwestern Transit Association Conference held last year, I engaged in a panel discussion
entitled "Leveraging Data to Reframe Your Agency's Message of Community Value." The conversation
centered on opportunities for agency leaders to modify their messaging and marketing stories to inform
stakeholders and their broader communities about transit agencies' critical role and the successes of the
communities they serve.
Jeffrey Arndt, he's the President and CEO of the Metropolitan Transit in San Antonio, Texas also served
as a panelist in the session moderated by Mark Aesch, the CEO of TransPro Consulting. As I transitioned
to community value being a strategic priority, during the annual Moving People Forward conference
hosted by Bicycle Colorado, that was held on Monday February 6, Civil Rights Director Carl Green, Jr.
and acting Assistant General Manager of planning Brian Welch participated in panel discussions
regarding transit equity and measuring transportation respectively.
I do want to acknowledge their involvement and engagement because I've heard from many of you that
were in attendance of the great presentations and the proud representation that they did on behalf of the
agency. So I wanted to ensure that I acknowledge their contributions here in this public forum. As it
relates to community value, customer excellence, and employee ownership, I am pleased to announce
the beginning, March 28, 2023, the Telephone Information Center, or TIC, will once again be open on
Sundays offering customer assistance from 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM. As you may recall, the TIC had been on
a reduced schedule since March 27 of last year due in large part to a lack of people power.

By May 28, it is anticipated the TIC will be close to a completely staffed. So I just wanted to note as we
talk about our nexus the people power, recognizing the vast contributions that people make up in this
agency where people moving people as we stated in previous sessions, that when we were able to retain
people power that we are committed to providing our communities with the level of service they have
come to appreciate.
Touching upon the winter bike to work day. On Friday, February 10, RTD joined the Denver Regional
Council of Governments in activating Civic Center Park winter bike to work day. Staff cheered on cyclists
as they rode to work and provided information about bringing their bikes on the bus and train. This was in
addition to a targeted social media campaign and a video of staff members riding bikes on the train, the
link bike riding was taking RTD services.
This is important as we look at mobility and RTD striving to be an integrated mobility because all of these
different options to move people aren't used by us as RTD staff as being competing but complementary
mobility options. So wanted to ensure that we acknowledge that as well. This week, a three-day recruiting
event is being held at the Boulder operating division, which began yesterday Monday, February 27 and
will conclude tomorrow Wednesday, March 1.
The event offers an opportunity for interested individuals that are seeking employment with the Regional
Transportation District to tour the facility and speak directly with bus operations staff, staff from our people
office, recruiters, and members of RTD's city's growing transit police department. Staff work directly with
colleges and universities throughout the region to highlight these career opportunities. And we have
leveraged social media as I've noticed, quite a few notifications on our various social media outlets.
And lastly, I would be remiss not to call your attention to two Employee Appreciation days occurring in
March. First is National Employee Appreciation Day, which falls on Friday, March 3. In recognition and
appreciation of all the efforts of RTD employees, coffee and tea stations will be set up and operating at
administrative facilities across the district and will coincide with each workshop with like 42 different
stations I believe we're going to leverage on Friday.
The second day of recognition is Transit Workers Appreciation Day, which will be observed on Friday,
March 17 this year. While this day was initially created several years ago to honor the efforts of transit
operators, I'm pleased to announce that all RTD frontline employees are being acknowledged and will
receive an agency branded lunch box to commemorate the special occasion and recognition of their hard
work and dedication to public servant.
As we all know, for those of us that utilize public transport on a daily basis. It's the front line operator, the
mechanics, and other critical positions that we have to ensure that we can get people where they need to
go when they need to get there. So wanted to give a personal shoutout and recognize all of our
hardworking employees. And as part of these events, staff has planned multiple internal and external
communication engagements in addition to recognizing and thanking employees across RTD's internal
communication platforms. The agency will use social media and other external platforms to encourage
customers to thank their operators and other front line workers for their contributions in moving this
region.
The efforts are focused on celebrating all RTD employees to come to work every day with a focus on
making lives better through connections. With that, Madam Chair, I thank you for the opportunity to
present before this body, and I will conclude my remarks at this time. Thank you very kindly.

JULIEN BOUQUET: You are on mute, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Johnson? Does anybody have questions or comments? Thank you
very much. Mr. Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mrs. Johnson, I just want to say thank you to your staff. You guys are incredibly
busy doing regular work and on top of it participating in all of these events. It's appreciated. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. There are two items under the unanimous consent agenda listed as
items 16, actions A and B. Those items are salary trustee appointment and town of Parker anthology
annexation. If anyone has a change to or has questions on this item, please feel free to advise me at this
time, and I will be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda. Under recommended action. Any
requests? No?
All right. May I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
DOUG TISDALE: I move to approve the consent agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear-DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale as a second or a movement, whichever.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I heard Tisdale as the movement and no-VINCE BUZEK: I heard Buzek as the movement and Tisdale as the second. The salaried trustee-- I'll
read these real quick. The salary trustee appointment for the Board of Directors to approve resolution
number blank series of 2023 replacing Leah Riley, Chief Administrative Officer with Charlene Polege,
Chief People Officer, as trustee with appointments firing December 31, 2023, replacing Kent Enwright,
manager, Labor Relations, with Adam Barnett manager total rewards as a trustee with a term expiring
December 31, 2024. Extending the December 31, 2022 expired term of Bill Widener, manager, technical
services as a trustee through December 31, 2024.
Extending the December 31, 2022 expired term of Director Bob Broom as a trustee through December
31, 2024. And replacing Director Peggy Catlin, whose term expired December 31, 2022, with Director
Bobby Dishell as a trustee with a term expiring December 31, 2024. For the salaried employee defined
benefit pension plan, the DB plan and salaried employee defined contribution retirement plan, the DC
plan.
Item B. The town of Parker anthology annexation, the Board of Directors will approve the annexation
petition from anthology management for inclusion of a 984 acre parcel into the district. Approval of this
annexation, the area would become part of district G currently represented by Director Bouquet. We have
a motion to these. Director Buzek as the movement and Director Tisdale is the second. Are there any no
votes on this action?
Great. With 14 yes votes, zero no votes, and no abstentions. Director Broom is absent. The motion
passes. Thanks very much.
There is one recommended action on the agenda tonight listed as item 17 action C. That item is for the
2023 schedule for in-person and remote meetings. For the Board of Directors to approve the 2023
schedule the schedule for in-person and virtual meetings, in adopting the schedule the Board anticipates

holding all standing and ad hoc committee meetings virtually and holding monthly Board meetings,
special Board meetings, and study sessions in person at the 1660 Blake Street offices commencing with
the March 28 Board meeting unless otherwise determined by the Chair in consultation with the Executive
Committee. The in-person meetings will still have a hybrid or virtual option for public participation. Do we
have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second from Director Williams. Great. Is there any discussion on this motion?
Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. The recommended action states that the in-person meetings will
still have a hybrid or virtual option for public participation. Will the hybrid or virtual option also be available
for directors who are unable to attend in person?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It will. I'll just answer that because it's come up in other meetings. And I think this is
a general decision, but certainly, anybody who's out of town or has other reasons to make it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. That's great. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am pleased that as the only elected body in the
state of Colorado still meeting remotely, we are finally going to be meeting in person as a full Board. And
relative to the committee meetings, I agree with the approach that we're taking now but certainly want to
state my hope and expectation that commencing in May, we will be able to have the committee meetings
in person also because the PHE the Public Health Emergency, has been decreed by the White House to
end as of May 11, and therefore, there would be no good reason for us not to do that.
And I believe that the work on the R, T, and D conference rooms downstairs at 1660 Blake should be
concluded by that time. And it will be good to have the public able to come back into the building because
based upon some research that I did with APTA, I find that we are the only transit agency who's a
member of APTA in the United States that continues to have no access to our building by the public, but
that hopefully as of May 11, that will end, and we'll be back welcoming everyone in person. Thank you
very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Director Tisdale. I'm not hearing a motion to amend its
comments at this point. Is that correct? Yeah, great. Any others? OK.
I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this recommended action? All right, with 14 yes votes, zero
no votes, and no abstentions and Director Broom absent tonight, the motion to-- the recommended action
passes.
The item 18 report of director activities. Would anyone like to report on their activities in the previous
month? Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: In the interest of keeping this brief, I'm not going to put dates on all these. I'm just going
to read some of the things that I've been up to. I did a ride along with Denver Streets Partners with
mayoral and city council candidates. I participated in the Transit Alliance celebration of the free transit
month.
I helped on the RTD Zero Emission Vehicles Committee. I also attended the Mayor's Bicycle Advisory
council meeting and Bicycle Colorado Moving Forward conference, where our GM and CEO spoke. I
attended Transportation Solutions, one of our local TMA meeting, DRCOG's Regional Transportation
Committee meeting, CDOT's monthly statewide transit meeting, the Denver Streets Partners Advisory
Council meeting, the Southeast elected officials monthly meeting, the Advisory Council for People with
Disabilities, attended that.
I volunteered at the Food Bank of the Rockies. I attended the Climate Action Sustainability and Resiliency
Transportation meeting. I chaired the Operations and Safety Committee meeting. I attended the Colorado
EV Council meeting, the SWTA conference, the FTA low no emissions webinar. And just for fun, I took a
great trip on Amtrak up to Winter Park and back. It's a beautiful ride. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. As most of you know, I am the Chair of the
American Public Transportation Association Transit Board Members Committee. And I did want to bring to
your attention and expand just a little bit on what I mentioned earlier relative to the APTA meeting in
Washington DC.
The legislative conference that is held annually in Washington in March. The TBA committee meeting will
be held on Sunday, March 12. And interestingly for our group, that committee meeting will include a
report on the Transit Board Members Toolbox that is in progress. This Transit Board Members Toolbox
replaces the Transit Board Members Handbook that APTA has published. And that toolbox will be
finalized for the TBM seminar that will be held in Birmingham, Alabama July 15 through 19, and it will be
available online to all transit Board members.
It will include, among other things, new sections that we have inserted relative to CEO evaluations, Board
ethics, Board self-evaluations, and other matters. And while I have the floor, I just want to say please, all
of you understand, you are all Transit Board members. To be listed formally as a member of the APTA
Transit Board Member Committee, please send an email to me requesting the same so that I may forward
the same to APTA staff and have you formally listed as Transit Board members.
There are about 4,000 or so Transit Board members across the United States who are part of APTA, but
only about 400 are officially members of the TBM committee. It would be my great honor if RTD Denver
would formally list all of the directors as members of the Transit Board Member Committee and have you
fully participate in all of our activities at APTA. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. That concludes my
report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I look forward to seeing the toolbox. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just have two things. Director Harwick, Director Ruscha and I were on a tour of
Denver's harm reduction center, which was really awesome. We got to go through that. So just the three
of us got together and did. That was properly noticed.

And then I also participated in a panel for the new liberals and the YIMBY group that met to have some
panel discussion about the community that we live in Denver going forward. So that's fine. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. A number of us visited the Harm Reduction Action Center last year. It's
a very interesting tour. First Vice Chair Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: Peggy, we can't hear you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I know. Sorry. I just lost my video, too. Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I was reminded the
very last day of January that one split second can take away a whole month of your life, but that said I did
work with the leadership of Director Sloan on developing a three-member Board action that we will be
bringing before this group to provide an acknowledgment at appropriate times for our employees. And so
that, I think, was important.
And I wanted to thank those of you who did participate in the risk assessment for audit. Really appreciate
your input on that. So that is all.
I point all that-- one more thing. I did have a communication from a constituent today, and I know from our
safety perspective, we've been focusing a large part on our large public facilities, such as Denver Union
Station and Civic Center Park, but it was brought to my attention that there's a great deal of concern
about folks taking over our property at Bergen Park up in the mountains and creating unwelcome
activities. And so we'll probably be reaching out to the Chief in the next couple of weeks to determine
what can be done about cleaning up those areas. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. In addition to Director Guzman's note, Director Guzman
and I also attended the Denver Task Force to Reimagine Public Safety February meeting. We were
invited and appreciated that opportunity. I was going to attend the National Federation of the Blind
Colorado chapter meeting last Saturday, but as you might be able to tell from my voice, I have the flu. So
I could not attend.
However, it is a standing invitation for any Board member who would like to attend. RTD often comes up
as a topic. And so I will make sure that the Board is advised of all future meetings in case anyone would
like to drop in. The meetings are generally held in Aurora in person. And I also, if I may just take a
moment of personal privilege, and I really wanted to recognize the Board Office for all their work in
helping the new members get onboarded.
And there was also-- I did also receive several concerns from my community in Central Park regarding
the park and ride and some break-ins and some cinder blocks you might have seen on the news that had
been left behind. And I thank the Board Office and being able to reach out to the appropriate staff and get
that taken care of. I got two very nice thank you emails this morning from constituents who were grateful
for that quick response. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And we hope you get well soon. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just wanted to make note that two of us attended the
Adams County Regional Economic Partnership legislative gathering in early January. I'm active in that
organization in my career up in Brighton and serve in a couple of capacities.

But RTD is a member of that organization and has been for a long time. And it was wonderful to welcome
Director Ruscha, who attended with me for that event. So I thank her for being there, and she was a lot
healthier the last time I talked to her. So get well. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You are welcome. All right, I see no other hands. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Thank you so much. I just wanted to briefly highlight that on the exciting
announcement of the possible funding for a one-year pilot program for free care for youth, I have begun
reaching out to different possible coalition members to hopefully get that funded. As I think many folks
here know, it can take more than a year to create a stabilized funding stream in the public sector for
something like this and would encourage you all-- we heard from Board Member Baldermann today. I
would encourage you all to also review the letter from Denver Public Schools that we received prior to the
meeting. And for those interested in coalition building and looking at other funding structures to help cover
that free fare for youth and continue that positive momentum, please don't hesitate to reach out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks Director Dishell. That is-- I don't know who you're working with and all of
that, but that seems like a good cause. We all have school districts, you know, and so maybe something
we want to discuss even at the retreat. But thanks for that report. All righty, no other hands. Are there any
other matters?
Nope. Great. Item 20, executive session. We have two executive sessions tonight. The first one regards
the battery electric bus project and the new flyer contract pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(b)(crs) to receive legal
advice and 24-6-402(4e)(crs) for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiations. In a moment, the Board will meet in executive session for the battery electric bus project
and the new flyer contract.
The Board will reconvene in open session after this executive session ends so that it can adjourn to the
second executive session. I'll now entertain a motion to move into Executive session regarding the battery
electric bus project and new flyer contract pursuant to section 24-6-402(4)(b)(crs) to receive legal advice
and 24-6-402(4e)(crs) for determined positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved. Director Williams.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Williams as the movement and Director Bouquet as the second. Is
there anyone opposed to this motion? No? Great. Would all those entitled to participate in the executive
session please move into the other meeting at this time?
[MUSIC PLAYING]

SPEAKER: RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators
are being installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is-RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.

Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
By all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride ride paper tickets as valid
fare payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and
during the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service. Sign up for rider alerts, news, and important
updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022, 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
By all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022, 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
By all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022, 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
By all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service. Sign up for rider alerts, news, and important
updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
By all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians . No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service, sign up for rider alerts, news, and important
updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account and
completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form . Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers/
By all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move. Your city RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers. careers
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time, anywhere, and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service. Sign up for rider alerts, news, and important
updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.

If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply-RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.

Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app. Call 303-299-2911 or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.

Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.

Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit or
credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.

Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important-MELANIE SNYDER: Oh my gosh.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we are back in our general session. Let's see, do we have-- let's see. I'm
counting directors. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. We're close. All right.
The executive session-- we have one more executive session for tonight, the executive session regarding
the Denver Transit Partners, LLC versus RTD litigation and February 10, 2023 order for entry of judgment
pursuant to section 24-6-402(4b)(crs) to receive legal advice in section 24-6-402(4e)(crs) for determining
positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations.

The Board meeting will now come back to order at 9:00 PM. I will now entertain a motion to move into
executive session regarding the Denver Transit Partners, LLC versus RTD litigation on February 10, 2023
order for entry of judgment pursuant to section 24-6-402(4b)(crs) to receive legal advice and section 24-6402(4e)(crs) for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations. Do I have a
motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved. Go ahead, Director Sloan. I'll second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. I hear Director Sloan is the movement and Director Williams as the
second. Is there any discussion? Anyone opposed to the motion to go into executive session?
All right. Would all those entitled to participate in the executive session please move into the other
meeting instance at this time this meeting-- I think we are coming back after this next meeting. Thanks.
SPEAKER: RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators
are being installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your
existing MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an
account, and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2000-- --21 and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid
fair payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and
during the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.

Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride ride paper tickets as valid
fare payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and
during the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.

Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.

Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
Buy all your RTD tickets and passes on your phone with the RTD MyRide app. Pay your fare with a debit
or credit card any time anywhere and bypass lines and ticket kiosks. And best of all, your phone is your
ticket. If you already have the RTD mobile tickets app, just update it, and you'll be ready to go.
RTD will be accepting all 2020, 2021, and 2022, 10-Ride and Access-a-Ride paper tickets as valid fare
payment through 2023. This is to accommodate customers who have purchased tickets before and during
the pandemic and have not yet returned to riding RTD. Visit rtd-denver.com for details.
RTD MyRide has evolved with more features and benefits than ever before. New validators are being
installed on buses and rail platforms, and the project is currently well underway. Transfer your existing
MyRide card balance to your new account by downloading the RTD MyRide app, creating an account,
and completing a transition form. Learn more at rtd-denver.com/myride.
Want more information about a specific RTD route or service? Sign up for rider alerts, news, and
important updates at rtd-denver.com.
If you see something, say something. When riding a train or bus or visiting any of our stations and
facilities, report any suspicious activity or packages to RTD's Transit Watch. Download the Transit Watch
app, call 303-299-2911, or text 303-434-9100.
Move your city. RTD is actively hiring operators, mechanics, and body shop technicians. No commercial
driver's license required. Salaries for operators start at $24 per hour. These positions also offer a $4,000
signing bonus, on the job training, and great benefits. Apply today at rtd-denver.com/careers.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I think we have a quorum. Do we have a motion to adjourn?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK we are adjourned. Thank you all.
DOUG TISDALE: Good night all.

