RTD Financial Administration & Audit Committee
09-22-20
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale here. I was disconnected and had to reconnect. Is there anyone out
there?
PEGGY CATLIN: [LAUGHS] Yes, Director Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hi, Doug, it's Angie.
BOB BROOM: I can hear you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: [CLEARS THROAT] Just checking. I had to go out and get my mail.
PEGGY CATLIN: I had to disconnect too to unfreeze my mute button.
Yeah, Peggy, that was funny. We were like, Director Catlin? Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I couldn't-- it was just frozen. And then I sent you a text, and it failed,
and I sent Barbara a text, and it failed, but my text to Shelley didn't.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I was-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Did you try to reboot your phone?
PEGGY CATLIN: I did. So I finally did, and then I disconnected and then dialed back in, so it
worked.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Very good.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, everybody. Sorry, I didn't even have it on hold. I feeding my cat so he
doesn't interrupt us. Shelley here, and I'm ready when you are.
Hello, everybody. I'm Shelley Cook. The Finesse Administration and Audit Committee will now
come to order. We're convened as of 7;39 PM and again would remind everybody respectfully
that if you've got your phone, please double check that it's muted and your ringer's set on silent.
So we've already gone through the safety notices. But I would note just for the record that under
the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held
remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. And during this time, the meetings
will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the

meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. And to see that, view rtddenver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
OK, so, Directors, we've got four items. And just for help, I would note that we're starting on
page 393 of the Board packet. And what we have here, the first recommended action is a
recommendation by FAA and A that the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract to Plante Moron-- Moran, sorry-- to perform
RTD's independent audit and financial procedures services.
The contract is awarded for these services for calendar years 2020, 2021, and 2022 in the amount
of $338,811. There is an option to extend the contract for two additional one-year period at
RTD's discretion in the amount of $242,000-- excuse me-- 749. And the action supports the
following General Manager's goals-- mission-oriented goal number three for strong financial
management and task goal number one, strengthen transparent public communication and
collaboration. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved. Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second. Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, we have a-- the movement is Chair Rivera-Malpiede and the second by
Director Williams. Thank you. Doug MacLeod, I believe your point on this. Do you have any
comments here?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug McLeod, Controller. Just a quick
run through. So the current contract with RubinBrown expires at the end of this month. We've
been with RubinBrown and their predecessor Bondi for over 15 years. We did issue this request
for proposals back in late July, received six proposals in August, evaluated those. And Plante
Moran was determined to have the best value.
We did evaluate based 40% on staff qualifications, 30% on firm qualifications, and 30% on cost.
We were very impressed with Plante Moran. They have a lot of experience in the transportation
industry. They are members of the Government Finance Officers Association as well as APTA.
And so we determined they did provide the best value. This contract value has a total value for
all five years of $581,560, which is just a 1-and-1/2% increase over the previous contracts. We
felt that was a good value as well. And with that, we'd be happy to take any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Board members, I'll run through in alphabetical order. Director Broom,
any questions for Mr. MacLeod?
BOB BROOM: No, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the explanation for the rationale for changing from
RubinBrown to Plante Moran. I appreciate that.
SHELLEY COOK: Is that it? Anything else?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you for noting that. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments from me.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I concur in the remarks of Director Mihalik. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Very agreeable to it. OK, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry to break the rolling record, but I would very much like to know if
the Accountability Committee has had any input into this selection of the audit, and [AUDIO
OUT] that we contacting because that is a good use of what they're supposed to be doing.
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod, Controllers. No, the Accountability Committee did
not having any input into the selection.
KATE WILLIAMS: And do we intend to let them know that this is who we are using?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, please go ahead.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah, this is a selection process that RTD makes. The staff makes the
selection, and we recommend to the Board. There really isn't any outside input into a selection
process like this. So we do not anticipate getting input from any outside parties into this decision.
KATE WILLIAMS: I thank you for that, Mr. Ballard, but I have some strong disagreement
because apparently we have an Accountability Committee because they do not believe that we
are capable of auditing ourselves and that they need to do that. So I think that this is something
that should be brought to their attention.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have anything to add there?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'd like to let the Board know that the Accountability Committee
has put together three subcommittees to really look at different things of RTD. This has not come
up, Director Williams, and I think we just still need to move forward with our work as we need
to. And the Accountability will do their work, and then we will go from there.
They're supposed to present a report I think by the end of the year, and they're just starting. So I
would say I'm really very comfortable moving forward with this. And then I would ask Director
Whitmore, Director Guissinger if they want to add anything.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't really have anything to add. I think part of the Accountability
Committee's charge was to review the state audit. But I don't think that they focused on [AUDIO
OUT].
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore, anything to say?
TROY WHITMORE: No, I concur with Director Guissinger.
SHELLEY COOK: OK

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, so I just want to point out on the record that this is something that we
have ongoing, that we have had ongoing that we've put considerable effort into and that perhaps
something that somebody might want to point out to them. Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you, Director Williams. And I likewise am glad we'll have a fresh
perspective. RubinBrown has done a good job. And every few years, I don't think-- it's a good
thing, and for that and for the reasons that Doug MacLeod cited, I'll be supporting this. With no
further comment, I'll go ahead around and just make sure we're all in support. Director Broom,
your vote.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Sorry, I was on mute. Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.

KEN TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes as well. So that motion by Chair Rivera-- Angie RiveraMalpiede-- sorry-- and Director Kate Williams passes unanimously. So thank you. OK, and
moving on. We're going to try and announce the packet page so folks can follow along. That's
page 395.
And the agenda item is the approval of the budget for a Homeland Security grant for a bus
audio/video live connection award nine. And this is Jannette Scarpino as our point person. And
Miss Scarpino, are you on the line?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes, I am. Can you hear me?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, I can. Thank you. Our recommended action is that the Board of
Directors approve receipt of the bus audio/video live connection project award in the amount of
$2,416,000 with no matching requirement. The award is from FEMA/Homeland Security under
the Transit Security Grant Program. Receipt of this award requires establishing the project
budget in Oracle and an increase to budgeted 2020 revenue of the same amount.
So the recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- mission-oriented
oriented goal number one for successful delivery of transit services and strategic priority number
five, strengthen safety and security. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. Tisdale.
BOB BROOM: Second. Director Broom.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Tisdale made the motion. Director Broom seconded. Thank
you, gentlemen. And Miss Scarpino, please.

JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes, thank you. I think the important thing to note is there is no match
required with this grant. In other words, there is no outlay of funds from RTD. The existing
audiovisual software on most of the fleet is at end of life. Support has ended by the vendor, and
there will be no further enhancements to the system.
So this grant will allow an upgrade to the fleet to operate remotely accessible live streaming
audiovisual video systems. And we will be installing new software on the existing hardware
base. We use this capability for investigations and safety. I think it's interesting that during the
thousands of investigations per year, video is critical.
The project will be completed in three years by September of 2023. Operational viability of the
project is about five years, we estimate. And the financial impact is neutral. That is, the revenue
and projected budget will offset. I would be happy to answer any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. I'm going around. Director Broom. Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: I vote yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, actually, we're not voting yet. Do you have any questions right quick?
BOB BROOM: Oh, no questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions, but I have a comment. Thank you, Madam Chair. So
Jannette, is this something that is on every vehicle, all of our rolling stock?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: No, it's actually only about 800 of our buses and 30 of our light rail
vehicles.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Is it our intention to put it on every single vehicle?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: If we can find grant money to do so, it's likely. But there is nothing-no specific project in the budget to do so outside of this grant.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Uh-huh. I just wanted to comment how important this is. And it's a story I
like to refer to that was really great. There was a guy a few years ago, maybe in 2013 or so. He

was I think at some shopping mall down like Wadsworth and Quincy maybe or south-- anyway,
one of those shopping malls. And he set off a bomb in the food court. You might remember this.
And he used a RTD bus as his getaway vehicle, and it took a photo of the guy. And we circulated
it everywhere nationally. And because of that, somebody in Boulder at the King Soopers there on
the main street recognized this fellow in the morning, told the manager. Sure enough, that was
the same guy. So it's very useful in solving crimes that have nothing to do with RTD. But people
do use our buses as getaway vehicle. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Guissinger, any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No. Good story, but no questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, no questions, and interesting story.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I just have one question. What is the purpose of the award requiring
establishing Oracle, establishing the project budget in Oracle?
SHELLEY COOK: Miss Scarpino?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Certainly. Because in order for spending to begin against this project,
we need to have a budget in Oracle to charge, if you will.
JUDY LUBOW: So that's kind of an ordinary request?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes. Again, this grant-- because this grant appeared outside of our
normal budgeting cycle, if you will-- that is, the 2020 amended budget is already in place-- this
is really the only way to bring this grant and the associated project into our accounting system,
into our budget.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, OK, thank you. That's it for me.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I'm not going to say I'm an expert on AV, but I'm a little surprised
that it's a statement here that we won't need to purchase any hardware. Is that pretty [AUDIO
OUT] very confident? Now did we test it out and we know that's true?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I have this statement from our IT Project Manager, and so I think they
are pretty confident about it. Yeah, we do have some spares on hand. And so if the existing
hardware fails, we know we can turn to spares. And the statement was made by IT that, OK, if

we have to go beyond that, then we will have to ask for a budget item to fund additional
hardware.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. On the commuter rail, on, let's say, the north line, is that doing a live
feed?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I think so. Can anyone else answer that on the phone? Maybe Henry?
MIKE MEADER: This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Go ahead, please.
MIKE MEADER: Yes, all commuter rail trains do have that capability for live feed right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. They have the capability.
MIKE MEADER: They are providing live feed of video at this time.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so it's active giving us live feed.
MIKE MEADER: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. And all of the others right now, these 800 buses and 30
light rail, that's stored somewhere on the physical vehicle itself and then downloaded if needed?
Is that the way it's set up right now?
MIKE MEADER: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right, that answers all the questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks very much. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments from me. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, far be it from me to examine the dental work of a gift horse. I
appreciate this grant.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: I can't follow that. No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions. I cannot follow that either. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Even I have nothing to say. I'm appreciative of it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think this is a great opportunity for
us to have one more tool in the tool box in terms of accountability as well. I think that this will
really serve several things for our communities feeling safer on our rail and on our buses and our
bus drivers. So thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And I concur with all the comments in favor, and I'm glad that
we were able to address the questions. Given that it's a grant and it's fairly late, let's try this. Can
we see if there are any who object, who will vote no on the motion? I'll give it a few seconds.
Any no votes on the motion?
OK, hearing none, I'll declare it passed unanimously. That's 14 votes-- or 15 votes in favor, zero
no votes and no extensions. OK, thank you. The next recommended action is the DTP private
activity bond refinancing consent. That starts on packet page 397. And the recommend action is
by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors-- RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to consent [AUDIO OUT] proposed
refinancing subject to the conditions described below.
And the goals we serve are mission-oriented goal number three for strong financial management
and strategical number six, move toward a stable financial situation. And the following
conditions are listed. Its numbers one through eight on packet page 399. Staff talk [AUDIO
OUT] to address it. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved. Rivera-Malpiede.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second. Guissinger.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. We have Chair Rivera-Malpiede and the second chair is Director Lynn
Guissinger. OK, let's see. Our point person here is CFO McKillop and Amiee Beckwith. I'll turn
it over to you to go into this, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I'm going to start
and then I'll have Amiee add anything that I didn't cover. But we wanted to bring this forward.
This is being brought forward a little differently than we would our normal financing. Typically,
we bring the action item with the actual resolution and bond documents.
These documents are quite large and extensive, so we broke it into two parts. One is we'd like to
get your concurrence to move forward with this action tonight. That gives us the authority to
start working with DTP on finalizing the documents, pursuant to those eight items that are listed
on the last page of the document, and I'll speak to those in a second. Then next month we could
bring forward the actual bond document itself, and then get your approval on the resolution and

the bond office documents that would also contain these parameters that we would use for the
actual financing.
This is a little unique in that we are the conduit issuer, so we are assisting DTP, but the actual
repayment of the bonds will be made by DTP. We will be using the same mechanism that we
currently use, which is what we call our paver payment on a monthly basis. [AUDIO OUT] to
see who, in turn, will pay the PAB, the Private Activity Bond.
This is a situation where the bonds have become callable. It's been 10 years since the bonds were
issued. We have a tax for your information. The original resolution, that was done in 2010, so
you can see what that resolution looked like at that time. The resolution we bring next month will
be similar, except we won't be in the construction phase or entering into the construction phase.
We're in an operational phase. So some of the language around construction is not applicable
anymore.
As we mentioned to you, you bring forward normally in a resolution a set of parameters that the
Board gives authority to the General Manager, and usually designates to the CFO then the ability
to move forward with the financing deal subject to these parameters. We are presenting those at
this time so that we can get those established up front as we move forward with the financing
process.
Once the Board approves this, the process that we would use would be similar to any other
process we would use moving forward to issue debt. We would get the documents done. We'd
have you approve those documents, and then we'd proceed to the actual deal, then pricing.
A little bit of other information. We have been working with DTP since February on reviewing
their proposal. We did have concerns that we had expressed to the Board previously, several
issues around how the court case would impact this deal. Also, we had concerns about the cost of
the financing related to the investment advisors, et cetera.
We have been able to receive the information we requested from DTP. We did not have that last
time we talked to you. Our legal counsel-- and I'll let Amiee speak to that-- feels comfortable
with the responses that we received. We also have been able to negotiate with them the price of
their advisors, the cost issue, and those type of things.
We still are doing some work there, but they have come down on those costs. And we think
we're in a position that we can move forward within the parameters described in this document.
So with that, I'll ask Amiee if she has anything to add, and then we'll open it up for questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Ms. Beckwith.
AIMEE BECKWITH: Thank you, Heather. I don't think I have anything additional to add, just
that the concerns we've had over time, we think they've been sufficiently addressed at this point.
And the parameters give us a lot of comfort, as far as the benefit that RTD will receive from the
financing.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Before I turn it over for questions, Ms. McKillop, in terms of the
conditions, is there anything in there you need to point out, anything unusual that we would not
normally see in this sort of an action? Just quickly, if you could recap or point out if there are
any significant pieces that we need to focus on.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. There actually are. Number 7 and
number 8 are a bit unique to this financing. So typically, what we would have is the Board
parameter would say that the net present value savings would need to be at least 3% or more.
That is not applicable to this particular financing.
What is applicable is whether how much of their refinancing adjustment gain that RTD would
receive. So we've set two parameters based on the lowest amount that we would think that the
Board would want to go or staff would want to go down in order to approve of financing.
One is an upfront payment, which is our preference, to get this money upfront. It would be
applied to FasTracks, and as you know, we need money there. So the minimum amount we're
looking at there, based on the current market conditions, would be $10 million, and that would
be a swing of 100 basis points.
So in the document itself, we've talked about $15.8 million, I believe it was. We looked at plus
or minus 100 basis points, and that takes us to $10 million. The other amount was if we received
the refinancing gain over time, which is another option. And that would be a slightly higher
amount of $13 million dollars would be the minimum amount. And again, that's 100 basis point
swing. We thought that was in a reasonable amount based on the market.
This would probably price in the end of November or December, most likely December. That is
the window that we're looking at, and it is practical that interest rates may swing a little bit. But
we're still at all time lows, so this is, we think, a pretty reasonable parameter. It is not a
parameter that is called for in the concessionaire agreement, but it is a parameter that we've been
able to work with and negotiate with DTP.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you very much for that. That was helpful. OK, just going round
again. And Director Broom, I'll start with you. Do you have any questions?
BOB BROOM: Just one. Is there an escrow that is going to be involved with this refinancing or
will the other bonds be just called in immediately?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. Right now I'm not anticipating an escrow.
We are looking at a possible insurance for this particular item because of the rating, which we
factored into these numbers. But because of the timing, I don't anticipate that we'd have an
escrow situation.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you. That's all.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Buzek, any questions here?

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. No, Director Broom asked my question, so thanks very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to commend you all on your
steadfast negotiation. It sounded like when we first heard about this that DTP was not being that
forthcoming, with respect to their costs, and it sounds like you've gotten that resolved. So good
job. That's all I have.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions, but well done. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. Thanks so much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: This was well done. No questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No. Well done. No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: I have no questions, Madam Chair. Thank you, Heather, for this work.
SHELLEY COOK: And Chair River-Malpiede, any questions?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also would like to say thank you to
Heather. Great work. I have no questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And for myself, I echo the comments and gratitude and appreciate that
we're going into this and we'll carry it forward. I do want to go ahead and get a voice vote for
each person, if I may. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes as well. So this passed with 15 Yes votes and no No votes and
no abstentions. That passes unanimously. Thank you very much. OK, moving right along here,
we have approval of court expense items. Let me scroll down to that quickly. This is on packet
page 410, all.
So the recommended action is the approval of the Board expense reductions. This is what the
Board office will use in developing our part of the 2020-'21 budget. The recommended action is
that the executive committee of the RTD Board of Directors, or excuse me, that that Committee
approve a motion to adopt the attached resolution, number-- oh, we still need to pop that in there.
We'll reach that later.
Series of 2020 concerning a reduction of Directors' expense budget lines in fiscal year 2021 to
offset revenue shortfalls due to COVID-19 impacts. And the recommendation is consistent with
the General Manager's 2020 core goal number 3 for strong financial management. Do I have a
motion and a second for this item?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Williamson is the movement. Who is the second? I couldn't
hear.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. So before we move into this item, I actually wanted to
entertain a motion to amend, as requested by Director Guissinger. So with that, what we would
do is take up the motion to amend first and include discussion on that, and then move into the
main motion so. So Director Guissinger, go ahead.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I move to amend the motion to strike, quote, "reduces by
4,000," end quote, and substitute eliminates, and to adjust all other amounts as needed to reflect
that change, with the understanding that if favorable economic factors and public health
conditions allow, the Board may choose to reinstate funding for out of districts transit-related
conferences for Board members and/or staff in the way of budget adjustments in 2021.
This would affect both the travel budget and the registration keys budget. And basically it's just
to say, with the rest of the staff, that you won't be traveling next year, unless things look better
and we consider it at a later point.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Is there a second for that motion?
TROY WHITMORE: I'll second the motion.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore, thank you very much. All right, so just right now,
let's focus on the amendment. Director Malpiede, Angie Rivera-Malpiede, you, with Barbara
McManus, were bringing this forward. Can you speak mainly to the amendment at this point?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order, please?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I if I may, because it was hard to follow, may I have
just the precise amendment restated? We went from the amendment into some description. Can
we have the amendment restated, please?
SHELLEY COOK: You bet. Director Guissinger moved to amend the motion to strike, under the
discussion item, reduces by 4,000. So let me get back to that and substitute the wording
eliminates, and then to adjust all the other amounts to reflect that change. For example, there are
amounts that talk about fiscal impact.
What she was asking, I believe, was for the staff to update the resolution and the staff report to
reflect that change for the Board consideration next week. And so with the understanding that
favorable economic factors and public health conditions allow, the Board may choose to reinstate
funding for out of district transit-related conferences for Board members and/or staff by way of
budget adjustments in 2021. For example, mid-year or earlier, if needed. Does that help, Director
Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, it helps a little. I mean, I'm looking at package page 413, and I
understand the amendment is to operative paragraph number 1. And as I understand it, it would
amend that paragraph to read, "The amount allocated for travel expenses for each Director, other
than the Chair of the Board, is eliminated," period. And then is there any change to the second
sentence of that first operative paragraph, as found on page 413?
SHELLEY COOK: Reduces by 1,000, the amount allocated, is that what you're referring to?

DOUG TISDALE: No, where it says the amount allocated for travel expenses for the Chair of
the Board is reduced from 7,500 to 3,500.
SHELLEY COOK: My understanding of the motion-- Director Guissinger, correct me-- is that
the travel budget for the Board and Chair is eliminating.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Just for the sake of clarity, then I think the operative paragraph would
read, "The amount allocated for travel expenses for each Director," strike "other than the Chair
of the Board," then leave the word "is" and then insert the word "eliminated" and strike the
balance of the paragraph. I think that's the sense of the motion, and I just want to make sure I
know where we're going. I'm prepared to support it, I just want to make sure that we have it clear
on the record what we are voting on at this point. Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I appreciate that. I appreciate that restatement. That sounds good.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Whitmore, are you good with that?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, I am, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. OK, want to see if there are-- first of all, Chair
Rivera-Malpiede and/or Barbara McManus, any additional comments on this motion to amend
only?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, on to amend? I'm going to ask Ms. McManus if she has any
comments on that.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Ms. McManus. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think this is a good amendment. The Board Office supports this,
after the conversation with Chair Cook earlier today to this amendment. This will add an
additional $60,000 plus to the already $87,000 that was already being reduced out of the Board
Office in the original recommendation. So I would agree with moving forward with this
recommendation, with the idea that the Board can bring this forward and make a change as we
move through the budget cycle in 2020-'21.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. I concur with that directly. Yes. OK.
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow. Can I ask a question?
SHELLEY COOK: I was going to go around, is that OK? I'll start from the end of the alphabet,
if that would be all right.

JUDY LUBOW: All right.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Williams, do you have any questions about the motion to
amend?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. I got it and I'm down with it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Dr. Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No. I think it's most appropriate. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Dr. Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I'm good.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am. I am in sport.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I concur with Director Tisdale.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I agree with this wholeheartedly, especially over eight years-- the Board
or the staff can back this up-- I've spent $0 over eight years on this line item. My question,
though, is does this also change a third bullet point under Discussion, which is reduces by half, to
$12,750, the amount budgeted for office to defray the cost of registration fees incurred in order
to attend out of district transit-related conferences?
SHELLEY COOK: OK. My understanding-- I'll refer to Director, or pardon me, Ma'am. Sorry
about that-- is that it would, and part of Director Guissinger's motion was to reflect the changed
amounts through all those ripples down the effects there. Is that correct, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, that's correct. That would be an additional adjustment. If the
Directors were not traveling, we would not need to utilize that line item as well, so that will be
updated as well.
SHELLEY COOK: OK
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I'll just add that I am just happy as can be about this amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: I will be a big yes. I'm just really sad I didn't think of this.

SHELLEY COOK: We did it for you, Natalie.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I'm so happy that Director Menten is so happy. I had the same question, which
was about 3. But it seems to me that we definitely want to say that that's coming out, because it
is theoretically possible that we would not be allowed to have the travel expenses and we would
decide, nonetheless, to have our own conference expenses and be willing to do that. So I think
we have to say that that goes, also.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Anything else?
JUDY LUBOW: No. I just want to concur, again, that I'm delighted that Director Menten is so
happy.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No question.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nothing further.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have a couple of questions. Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, to Ms
McManus, how many budget cuts have this Board taken so far?
BARBARA MCMANUS: How many what?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: How many budget cuts has this Board taken so far, after this one? Is it
three?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we're in the midst of-- we did two this past year, two separate
ones in reductions. And going into 2021, this will be the third reduction. Correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. I think it's reasonable. It's reasonable, for sure, but if nobody is going
anywhere, the money wouldn't have been spent anyway. In a way, it's kind of window dressing
for me. It's fine and I'd go along with it.
You have new directors coming in next year. That's fine. I don't know what this number you're
looking at, number 3 on this. But I'm getting these [INAUDIBLE]-- and please correct me, Ms.
McManus-- is that our membership fees from like AFTA?

SHELLEY COOK: Yes. So generally, out of the main Board Office budget, the first two were
application fees or conference fees are paid for by the Board Office, and then any trips after that
are absorbed by the Directors' budget.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But we'll still remain a member?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. The membership comes from the overall agency pays that due at
the beginning of the year. So that does not affect our standing for any of the conferences that we
would travel to, historically.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, well I think it's really important that we maintain our membership
fees to these organizations, because whether we're present at the conferences or not, they do a
tremendous job for public transit agencies all across America and lobbying for us to have the
wherewithal to do things that we need to do to serve our public. So I think that's really important
to maintain that and keep them as healthy as possible, to the extent that we can. So thank you
very much. You've answered my question.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin, any questions, comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Madam Chair, I do have a question. I know that some of these
conferences are now going to be held virtually, and for some of them there are registration fees
associated with it, albeit they're reduced. So my question was with regard to item 3, that there
may, in fact, be some participation at some base that would benefit the Board and the
organization. Would Ms. McManus like to address that?
SHELLEY COOK: The question, Ms McManus, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we don't know exactly what the cost of those conferences will be.
We did do a little bit of research in that, but didn't get any answers. The Chair does have a
discretionary fund, which although we have reduced, it still is in place. Right now, I am sorry, I
don't know what that line item is at this point in time.
But in speaking to the Chair, if there were some sort of remote meeting that we needed to attend,
we would assign a Director to that to bring the information back to the Board, reducing the price
of multiple people being on that conference, number 1. And number 2, keeping the cost to
minimum and coming out of the Chair's discretionary funds.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, that helps. And the reason I asked this is because I do this on my own
through my own company, but I'm a standing committee member at TRB, and they're holding
their annual conference virtually. And for that there is a registration fee, so I just was not sure if
there was similar circumstances. But if we feel that we can cover those special cases in another
fashion, I'm supportive of this. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, and thanks for raising it. It's a very good point, if we can take
advantage of those. So Director Buzek, any questions or comments?

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks, Madam Chair. I was going to ask that same question that First
Vice Chair Catlin just asked, so good to have that info. And as Director Tisdale correctly pointed
out, the amendment is to the resolution itself, not to the discussion section in the staff report.
So he amended paragraph 1, I guess we ought to make sure that we're clear on the amendment to
paragraph 3, that the motion maker and the second are good with that as well, because we didn't
discuss that first time around, and that would be reducing that expense in its entirety, from
$25,500 to $0.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, OK. Thank you, both, for that correction. I appreciate that. And Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: The only thing I'd suggest is leave the $12,750 in there to cover conference fees
for people that are going to do it virtually. You may have some new Board members coming on
and they need to have a chance to get a taste of AFTA, what it is and what it offers, and that type
of thing. I think just to totally zero everything out would be a mistake.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom, are you making a motion to amend the amendment?
BOB BROOM: No, I'm just speaking against the amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom, to that question, as you know, we do quite an
extensive training for the new Board of Directors. AFTA, for quite some time, has been
recording their webinars and a lot of their informational webinars that they've been sponsoring
over the past few years.
And we are reviewing them right now to make sure that since there would be limited travel
originally, but now proposing no travel, that we would put those Directors in touch with all of
those webinars on the AFTA website that we feel relevant to them being able to understand and
move forward in the new transportation responsibilities that they will be taking on.
BOB BROOM: OK, then that satisfies my concern. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you both. OK, and for my part, I emphasize a couple of points. One is
we've eliminated the travel budgets for pretty much everybody in the agency, including the CPO.
We recognize that things may change. And so Director Guissinger's motion provided for that
possibility as public health and/or financial concerns allow. But I think that right now the
statement is that we are going in accord with what we have said everybody else should. And I
think that's entirely appropriate.

I do like the questions that have come up and the responses that have been given for the concern
about remote training, the benefit of that, and how cost effective that is. So I really wanted to
thank the Board staff. And its information comes up in your continued research. We certainly
can take that up as we approve it at the Board level.
So with that, I'll go ahead and take a vote on the motion to amend. And that was, as pointed out,
by Director Buzek and Director Tisdale, of the resolution items and the amounts to be carried
forward as needed by the Board staff for the next presentation at the Board meeting. So, Director
Broom, your vote please.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I regret that I did not give Natalie Menten the opportunity to second a
resounding, yes.
[SOFT LAUGHTER]
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair, we're voting on the amendment. I'm voting, yes. But when
we come back to the original proposition then I'd like to have another chance to speak. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: Of course, of course. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And I'm a, yes. So the motion to amend carries with 15 yeses and no
nos, no abstentions. So that motion to amend passes. Now we turn to the main motion with that
amendment. And what I'd like to do here is ask both Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Barbara
McManus to add their comments or explanation for the Board to know about and consider. So go
ahead to Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I think that the Executive
Committee has had some really in-depth discussions about the RTD Board of Directors in
looking at requests for looking at the different things that we attend. Clearly, last year really
showed that no one traveled anywhere in light of the COVID issue that was happening.
But as the Executive Committee sat down and started looking at what was happening in the
community and stuff we really felt like we needed to look at this issue at the very beginning of
the year, on how we could eliminate some cost and be part of the solution. So with that, I really
would like to turn it over to Ms. McManus.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this conversation came out of the reductions that we did last year
for the Board in good faith of what financially we are facing at RTD and the agency. We thought
it would be best to bring this forward at this point in time going into the 2021 budget. So that

Heather and her team would have a starting point of building the budget around the Board taking
this reduction.
I know in the big scheme of things it doesn't seem like an awful lot of money. But in good faith,
some of the smaller projects could be offset with this dollar amount. And you know, honestly, it's
equal to at least one job.
So we decided to move it forward in hopes that the Directors would agree and stand in solidarity
with some of the hardships that the rest of RTD is moving forward and making changes to for
2021. So that was the thought path in the conversation with the Chair as we came out of the last
two study sessions brought forward by the task force. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. We had some indication of questions. Director Williams,
you had said that. So I'll start from the end of the alphabet. Please, proceed.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd like to point out that in June of this year we
paid our APTA dues of $98,000 for the next year. That's the national transit association. And
we're not going to travel to any of their meetings. We're going to do what we can do with them
remotely. And we've agreed on that.
The state agency which is CASTA has offered us a 50% reduction in our dues. And I'm
wondering if we could ask the national organization, who supposedly represents all of the things
that are going on in our industry, if they would consider refunding some of that $98,000 that
we've paid to them. So I'd just like to put that out there. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair River-Malpiede or Barbara McManus, any comment on that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I do know that some of the contracts that we have had in the past
have entertained reducing some of their dollars. I don't know if staff has talked to, or whether
APTA has any plans on making any reduction based on the fact that we're not in a world of
business as usual.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Ms. McManus, this is Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I'd like to
ask that question of Director Tisdale, who is on the Executive Committee of APTA, if APTA's
had any discussion about this issue.
SHELLEY COOK: I think that's a good idea. I'll skip over a couple people. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Much, Madam Chair. Yes, the Executive Committee at APTA has had a
discussion relative to a number of these terms. We've taken some dramatic steps at APTA
attempting to address our tremendous loss of income.
You may recall that-- and I forget the percentage so forgive me if this is incorrect. But something
like half of the revenue of APTA comes from the annual expo that we put on and the sponsor
fees that are paid to APTA in connection with that expo.

We canceled the expo for this year that was to be held in Anaheim. That means that we lost half
of our budget. And significant adjustments have been made at APTA, including to staff and
salaries and various administrative costs, because of the tremendous loss of revenue.
We did not consider in the Executive Committee any adjustment in the dues from the thousands,
almost 2000 I guess, members of APTA. For the simple reason that we barely could survive with
that loss of revenue from the various programs. So the registration fees, the sponsorship fees, the
payment for other services, advertising [AUDIO OUT] is sold, and so forth, is all gone. And
that's why the Executive Committee has not considered any adjustment to dues
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Whitmore, did you have any questions or
comments?
TROY WHITMORE: No, Madam Chair. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker, you're also affiliated and on APTA's board, anything to add
there?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, thanks. I'm looking at the-- let's see-- Finance Committee operating
budget-- budget expected for fiscal year 2021. And membership dues, revenue from membership
dues, were estimated to be down about $1.3 million. So there's not much room to move down
further.
And there's still a lot of advocacy that still goes on with the legislation with Congress. And
programs still need to be developed and put on so that those members who do stick around are
seeing something for the money that they give. So that's just to support what Tisdale said.
But I have my own questions. I talked to a couple of folks about it. One of my concerns was
about emergency travel. I've been called-- I got called back to meet with the Secretary of
Transportation one year. And I know that other CEOs and a Board Chair or two had to make a
trip down to Dallas or, I guess, Fort Worth to talk to BNSF.
How much is in the Chair's discretionary budget if some company or somebody says you have
till midnight to get here and close this deal and then we can finish some thing, some fast tracks
project? So how much is the discretionary budget in the Chairs? Ms. McManus or Chair RiveraMalpiede?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry. As I said when I spoke earlier, I don't know exactly after
the reduction what remains in that line item. But I can let the Board know tomorrow morning.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I'm sorry. I didn't catch that when you said that earlier. Yeah, so I'm all for
reducing expenses. And travel isn't that big of a deal to me. If there's something I really want to
go to-- when it's safe to go in this day and age. But even in the past, I've shared rooms with other
folks who needed to trim their expenses.

And when Rail-Volution was here in 20-- I think it was 2017-- there were six people in my house
that came from different parts of the country so they could save money but they really wanted to
be here. So I was able to put them up. So it was like Haight Ashbury in 1968, I guess.
[SOFT LAUGHTER]
But anyway, so I'm fine with the cut in travel as long as we can still respond quickly if that call
arises at some point-- if it arises next year. And I'll support Director Folska when she said it's
kind of like window dressing.
It's a perk. And it's an important perk. It's part of our job. But there are other ways that I think we
can make a more substantial statement about standing with the employees. That's it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik, we're on the main motion, any comments
there, questions?
KEN MIHALIK: Nope, nothing from me.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I support it. Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No comment.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing for me.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger? Director Guissinger? I'll move on. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. [THROAT CLEARING] I just want to
emphasize, again, the trips at least to Washington that-- I mean, I think it's all important, all the
APTA events and whatnot that we go to. Because we learn from each other. We learn from
different agencies. We build relationships. Relationships are key to being successful in any
industry, including this one.
But I think the important part, for me, that I don't want to lose sight of-- and we do have an
excellent lobbyist, Squire Patton Boggs, that helps us with our federal delegation in Washington.
But it isn't just our federal delegates that we need to be visiting with, which we really need to
keep our eye on that ball for sure.
And even when they're already sympathetic, they, our senators and Congressmen and women,
have a lot on their plate. So it's important for us to keep ourselves in front of them. And when we
go there, not just our lobbyists but when we go there as a Board, the more Board members we
have that go there the more impactful it is. It's a very powerful statement.

And we do it twice. We do it with APTA at the Annual Legislative Conference. And we do it
again with Accelerate. And Accelerate is great because it's a private public coalition of people
that represents the public and private sector of Colorado, again, with our federal delegation.
But it's not just our elected folks. It's the people who are the bureaucrats in the Department of
Transportation, FRA, HUD, Department of Labor. We're able to visit with high level people
there who can help us move different things forward and better understand.
For example, if we want to get a new definition of what a BRT is that is where making the case,
not just to our-- and not even just the staffers of our elected officials up there-- but also to people
in other parts of the different agencies in the administration. So just, please, be very mindful of
that. And don't lose sight of that. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. Director Catlin on the main motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: I am fine with the main motion. I do believe there is a typo in the third
paragraph.
SHELLEY COOK: Go head.
PEGGY CATLIN: Severe has an e at the end, I believe.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just a detail. But I'm fine with the motion.
SHELLEY COOK: Good catch. Director Buzek, any comments on the main motion?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, no comment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No comment.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger, are you back on the line?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Any comments or questions? Main motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No comments. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. So what we're voting on here is the reduced amounts listed. We're not
voting on the question of whether APTA-- whether we renew the APTA membership, if I
understand it correctly, so just making that clarification.
I wanted to see if I could just ask if there are any no votes. Are there any no votes on the main
motion with the amendment already passed? I'll pause there. Any no vote?
OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Barbara McManus, thank you very much for your bringing this
forward, for the spirit and sentiment it represents, and for the flexibility that you demonstrated. I
would add on the APTA matter, just because I agree it's a lot.
But we have counted on those folks, just as we have Squire Patton Boggs to carry the message
about the need for help. And I think that they've been effective in that. So I would say that's
where my belief falls. That we ought to maintain that membership and support the organization
that's supporting us right now.
OK. That's that item. Then moving on to the next and final action item. This is a Director
initiated item. It's the compensation reduction salary non-union. It was added to the agenda as a
Director initiated request pursuant to our bylaws as in section noted. It requires a formal motion
and a second. So let me read that motion.
It is recommended by Directors Menten, Folska, and Mihalik that the Board of Directors adopt a
compensation reduction package for the salaried positions within the following salary ranges.
Tier 1, the proposed motion would reduce wages 15% for salaries 150,000 and above. Tier 2,
reduce the wages at 10% for salaries at 100,000 to 149,999. And tier 3, it would reduce wages
5% for salaries at 60,000 to 99,999.
That reduction would be effective January 1, 2021. And, as stated, the recommended action
supports the following General Manager's goals, core goal number 3, strong financial
management. OK. Before we talk I'll open it up for a motion and second.
JUDY LUBOW: Lubow.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow is the mover. Second?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Folska.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Director Folska is the seconder. OK. I'll turn it over to Director
Menten to introduce this item and add any comments, et cetera, that she wishes to. Go ahead,
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you So to start with I think it's good to just look at where we
started and where we are now with this. This proposal has been amended compared to what I had
set the stage with at our last meeting where we discussed this.

I did hear the feedback from some Board Directors that, number 1, they did not think the staff's
proposal went far enough. And the calculations or the percentages that I had suggested at that
time were too much. So I did hear that.
And in response to that this proposal, as noted, is a reduction instead of the 18% for the top tier it
is now 15%. And this is for salaries 150,000 and above. The next tier, instead of being 13%
reduction has now been reduced to a 10% reduction. And this is for salaries, again, 100,000 to
149, up to 150,000. And then the third tier, instead of being the 7% that was originally proposed
is now 5% for salaries 60,000 and up to 100,000.
And so I state that just to indicate that I did hear the message and made those allowances and the
changes. This proposal compared to what staff has come back with, if you look at the reductions,
the change in the percentages, it's 3 or 2% less than what I had started with. Staff had send us a
message-- I believe it was maybe yesterday-- that indicated they had moved up the reductions on
their end.
But there we only saw a 1% increase and, at the most, 2 and 1/2 percent increase. So we still
have a difference on where we're sitting. And that really gets summed up in the dollar amounts
of where we would end up with if this proposal moves out of committee. Which just as a
reminder, gives time to discuss any things that people might want to bring forward.
Because we would, of course, go to our final Board meeting and have a vote there. But for right
now, this proposal, I believe, is suitable. It's responsive to the situation that the agency is in right
now.
At the last meeting there was a question about where did these percentage just come from. Well
on the top tier, it definitely moves RTD closer to the executive or top tier salaries at Colorado
Department of Transportation. I think that that's very appropriate.
And when we look at RTD, there have been questions about, well, how do we look at other
transit agencies and see what they're doing? It is very difficult to compare RTD to other transit
agencies, especially as RTD and others are coming out of or running out of the Cares Act money.
But RTD's situation started well before COVID. It was November of last year when we heard
that we were not going to be able to continue with operations and maintenance as is. And there
have been, through the years that I've been on the Board, years plural, where we have pushed off
capital improvements, capital repairs.
We heard a very passionate presentation maybe several weeks ago, a few weeks ago, about the
situation that we face with that. So at the end of all of that it comes down to the dollar amounts
and the differences between what staff's presentations proposed or I should say the task force,
and what this proposal would give us.
And for rough figures-- and I was very cautious when I was calculating it. And the original
proposal was going to save us somewhere between 7 to 7 and 1/2 million dollars. This
compromise here is reduced it to a total of 5-- let's see, staff had come up with close to $5

million. [INAUDIBLE] be a little bit higher. Question comes as to who's going to actually be
laid off and where they are in these tiers.
But at the end of the day, we do know that by going with this proposal it will present to us an
additional $3.3 million dollars more in savings. Than we get to open up the discussion about,
where does that money go? That's not laid out in this proposal.
But as we talked about earlier in this evening we talked about trying to find quarters under the
couch. We just got done with a discussion of reducing the Board's expenditures. And I heard the
words that perhaps that means one more person who would keep a job.
So what does $3.3 million dollars do? Well if we were to take and talk about service, I'll use a
$12 figure, because I believe that's fairly close to what we do, we contribute, on a taxi ride for a
para transit trip. So if we took $3.3 million dollars and divide it by 12, that's 275,000 additional
trips.
If we were to look at a $50,000 salary, and he did factor in the benefits, of course, but $3.3
million divided by $50,000 is another 66 positions that maybe support these alternative transit
that we're talking about in some way or some fashion. So these aren't small dollar amounts.
I mean, we just got done talking about a $4,000 reduction per 15-- for each of the 15 Board
members. And the 12,500 that were or 12,750, whichever, that went to conference fees. So when
we talk about another $3.3 million we're not talking small change.
Does this mean that we can keep some more of the people who would be laid off? We can open
up that discussion. But the first thing we have to do is find out where that money would come
from. And that is what this recommended action brings forward.
Is an opportunity to open up discussion that is well beyond the original task force
recommendation of $1.9 million total. Now we are in a $5.8 million total. And again, the
difference being roughly, without all of it said and done, $3.3 million additional.
So it's also come up where are those comparable agencies? It has made some reductions. Well if
you go to look on Google and you look up furloughs, pay reductions, government agencies,
private agencies, you're not going to run out of Google links on the first page. There are a lot of
them out there.
And if you look at a recent, one of the top tier news sites, October is when we are going to see
quite a hit, whether it's to the airline industries or others. Dallas just recently talked about a up to
25% salary cut, Cineplex up to 80%, Chrysler took a 20%, Heathrow 15% to 20%, Air India
talking about a 50%.
So when we're talking about a 5%, 10%, 15%, I think it's appropriate for our agency, considering
our budget problems go on before COVID. By voting yes tonight, it doesn't make it a final
decision. It opens up the door to have a discussion before the next Board meeting.

I would hope that everybody that has the ability to vote yes or no tonight would just think about
what more can we do with the money. How can we stretch this money? I will address one thing
that may come up and that is the tiers.
Unless you were to do a straight across the board percentage, or the furlough days-- unless you
were to do a straight across the board, you will see those differences when you get to the top of
one tier and the bottom of the other tier. There's just no way to avoid it.
That was part of the discussion even when we went back to the eight or nine furlough days, I
believe nine furlough days. And the impact to the rest were 60,000 and below. That's still
present. This, I believe, is a fair way to go about this and open up this discussion.
It also prevents the excessive amount of furlough days that we were talking about before. This is
a straight out comp reduction. I am concerned about the riders. And what we'll see if we have the
furlough days.
Even at the six, it still provides some sort of an equity that those who do not have any furlough
days, the 60,000 and below, when their supervisor is taking furlough days that means that person
may have to hold on for that customer service request, or part of the capital project, when the
supervisor is not there. And I don't think that's in the best interest of the district.
That's why this proposal is actual comp reductions. So again, I hope you remember the numbers.
We're talking about $12 [INAUDIBLE] vouchers that's over a quarter million more rides that
could be provided, perhaps, because of this and this Board action. If we were to look at the
positions that could be saved or we could be using alternative transit it's a substantial amount of
money. And with that I will close.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Director Menten. OK. So what I'd like to do is first take
questions and/or comments that relate to Direct Menten's initiated item here. And Director
Broom, I'm going to start with you.
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. My first question would be, what's the duration of these
adjustments? Is this a COVID related temporary reduction or is this permanent?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Ms. Menten, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: That is a good question. And what the resolution states is that this
becomes effective January 1, 2021. And like any of our-- any of the resolutions-- most of our
resolutions, let me limit it to that. It leaves it up to the future Board as to when they can reverse
this resolution.

So I could have written it as, when the financial situation improves. That could be-- could get a
lot of opinions on that. It is not meant to be permanent. It gives a start date. And as we know
once I leave the Board, the Board in March of 2021 could change this.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I'd like to also ask first Melanie Snyder, we often ask our council for
that legal interpretation. Mr. or Director Buzek, if it's OK with you I'll just make sure that legal
counsel concurs with Natalie's, Director Menten's, response on that. Is that OK?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, as long as you come back to me. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. Go ahead, Melanie.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, can you just clarify what it is you're asking?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, the question that Director Buzek put was, for what term? Is this a
permanent change? What's the duration of the cuts as written?
MELANIE SNYDER: Well I mean, I think that's a question for Director Menten. The way I read
the proposal I see it-- I don't see that it-- I see it as a permanent change. I didn't see language in
there saying that it would be temporary.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Director Buzek, go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I had to concur with that. And that made me a bit nervous among other
things. So that's a problem for me. That's a big number. You know, I was one of the ones, I think,
that said, yeah, the staff proposal I wish could be a little bit more.
I'm having some difficulty with this. And I'm hoping to listen in on some other Director's
comments. This just seems like quite a bit. And I still have to say this numbers pulled out of the
air. Director Menten's argument was it's not pulled out of the air. It puts us closer in line with
CDOT.
Well a couple of things, we're not CDOT. And no it doesn't. So it still fails for me for not being
related to anything in reality. At least with the staff proposal, they had some basis, albeit
anecdotal. But they at least looked around and saw what other agencies and other places were
doing. So I think that's important.
There are also, I'm guessing, some impacts on pension contributions, health care costs, things
like that. I mean, the numbers are unknown on that. And no staff gave us a memo on that. But
I'm not sure, you know, to what extent there's going to be impacts there.
You know, staff is working on these numbers. And I think they're going to come back to us with
something more than what they proposed before. And I guess I'll wait to get a formal
presentation of staff's recommendation before I want to make a decision.

And then, ultimately, you know, I also want to wait a bit to see what Debra Johnson thinks. And
when she comes on board, if she thinks we need to be at 15% and staff agrees with her then I
guess we can consider that. I'm just having some difficulty. And I'll listen to other comments
before I make a decision. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Buzek.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair, may I have a response?
SHELLEY COOK: No, let me go through, please. And then we'll go ahead. And Barbara
McManus also wanted to interject something here. Go ahead, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Nothing to do with this item at all but I just want to remind everybody
on the call that at the four hour mark you're going to be put temporarily on music hold while the
system resets itself. That has started for myself and Ty Shrea who were on the call first.
So I just wanted to let everybody know just hang in there through the music hold. And you'll be
put right back into the meeting. But at the four hour mark that's what you'll experience. I just
wanted to let you know.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Buzek expressed some of the concerns
that I had. But I thought I heard that Director Menten said that staff has come back with a second
proposal.
And I did not see anything in my inbox from staff regarding an additional proposal. So I would
really like to see what the staff recommendation is. That's all I have regarding this.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And that's probably a good idea to forward that back through to
everybody now. If you're able to, either John McKay or Barbara McManus. It came through
from Barbara yesterday. And it was-- because it was an attachment-- it may have been that some
people didn't see it. I think it would be good to send it through right now. If you can do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm working on it.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would sure appreciate that.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: OK.

[LAUGHTER]
OK. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I'll be sending-- I'll be sending it right away.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thanks very much.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair, can I-- can I just read off their proposal? Because the audience
wouldn't see that.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, OK. Well I would rather have-- you mean the staff proposal? I would
rather have the staff present that if that's OK. But let's go around and get other comments. And
then I'm going to give them a chance to bring that forward. OK, Natalie? Director Menten, sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well it's part of the discussion tonight. And I would like to respond to
Director Buzek about if there was language, where does this end? Well right now as I stated, the
Board could change that at any time, the proposal.
But if there was language that felt more appropriate this would be reviewed in July of 2021. That
would be fine. That's where this is opening the door. But I think with staff's memo to all of us,
which is part of public record, and will be some time before we will hear this it's appropriate to-I tried to kind of cover a little bit in the presentation. But I've got it printed right in front of me
instead of waiting.
SHELLEY COOK: I'd rather-- yeah, I would rather that they present it. And we'll do it just
shortly here. And I want to make sure that we're not engaging in a debate at this point. So with
your indulgence here, I'm going to move ahead to Director Folska and see if she's got any
questions. And knowing that we're going to see this, or hear about, this document in a bit.
Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I did hang up and call back in so I wouldn't get
stuck on that hold. So I missed a little bit of what was going on. My impression and my thought
process in this conversation with Director Menten, the intent was that it was for a period of 12
months, 2021. And then that new Board would take an opportunity to evaluate the financial wellbeing.
As we've been talking about, we need desperately to replenish our reserves. We need to make
sure that our equipment and infrastructure is in a state of good repair. I tell you, I was on this
light rail yesterday morning going downtown and it did not sound good. In fact, it was clinking
and clanking like I've never heard before.
And so the safety of our passengers is important. And if we have extra monies that we can pull to
ensure that the equipment we are using, as old as it may be-- that we have the resources to take
care of that and to operate. So it isn't a huge amount of money but, it just, it feels very
appropriate.

As to Director Buzek's point-- and it's a good one. I mean, staff presented their recommendations
and, albeit anecdotal, they compared to budget cuts to things in the local paper of different
organizations. The governor, I think, said today-- I could be wrong, I was kind of moving
through the room when I heard this on the radio or some news station-- either that the state of
Colorado was taking a 20% or a 30% reduction, whether it's furloughs or whatever, but it's a-it's all throughout the state, everything.
That's pretty big. And none of this, I don't think, that the top tier isn't anywhere near 20%. And it
is graduated. And it's painful. It's very painful. And I want to also say that this is-- and I said it
last week, too. This is not an easy thing for anybody here. It's not for me.
And I am not, nor do I believe my colleagues on this Board, that our salaried or our represented
employees one versus the other is more important or more valuable. Or has the right to suffer
more or leak less. This is just a difficult time. And we're trying to do the best we can.
And I don't see anybody playing favorites or having favoritism toward one group or the other. So
I'd like to make that very clear. And I don't see this as being something that is a permanent pay
reduction. And I think maybe that needs to be clearly articulated in this notion. And maybe
tonight we can make a friendly amendment to that effect.
But Director Menten has also provided other transit agencies, whether they be airports or public
transit agencies, service transportation, that we know of. As you know, when we're looking for a
CEO trying to benchmark what a good salary is is a very difficult thing to do. So this is an art,
not a science, really. And we take the best information that we have available.
And I believe that Director Menten has gone far and wide, not just in America, but globally, she
mentioned Heathrow airport, on and on. So we have to, I think, give that some consideration as
well. So she's gone far beyond what staff has done for what comparable agency.
So if you don't like CDOT, you don't have to. It's not only CDOT that Director Menten is
comparing us to. And we are a different agency than CDOT by far, by far. We have a very
complex operation. What we do is very different. They support the movement of people. We
actually move the people, in some cases.
And I think excluding the Bustang and so forth. So I'll leave it at that for now. I'm interested to
hear what other members of the Board have to say. But again, in my mind this is not a permanent
salary reduction. So I think that's important to be mindful of. And that's all I have for now. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Director Folska. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. [THROAT CLEARING] Excuse me. I think there are some
good questions being asked. And I have some concerns about this proposal. I feel like staff has
moved up in terms of what their plan is. I was initially very concerned about the 18 furlough
days.

I would say, we received some very thoughtful letters this week from our support and
professional staff. And this is just a hard conversation. Because I think people do take it
personally. And I'm really sorry to the extent that that happens. Because everybody is important
to the team. And all of these decisions are hard, layoffs, salary cuts, all of these pieces.
We have a compensation study coming up with some of these questions give us data. Hopefully,
help us make some long term decisions. So I think it's very important that what we -- is a one
year determination tonight and in the near future.
I guess, it feels like a lot to me. I'm leaning-- I do want to hear the staff's proposal. [AUDIO
OUT] the other costs [AUDIO OUT] reductions [AUDIO OUT].
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. One question is, can we head off this problem? If you have
already spoken we can do as Director Folska mentioned and quickly log off and back on. But we
may have to take a quick break at 930 if people start dropping off. But let's continue for right
now. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate Director Menten bringing this forward. I have not
seen the staff proposal. And I would also like to hear from staff regarding their proposal. I do
think that-- we received an email from some folks. And one of the suggestions was to look at a
more tiered approach.
And I actually support what Director Menten has put forward. But it did make me think about
how we might roll this out differently. And I do think that at least what we had seen from staff
previously that the cuts were not deep enough. I mean, I think Director Menten is really keying
in on that.
And so I don't necessarily have any questions for Director Menten. Maybe at some point I might
offer a friendly amendment. But for now I would really like to hear the second proposal from
staff.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I don't want to interrupt this call but, on the other hand, people are
interested. And it's a fair number haven't seen the proposal. Paul Ballard, I understand that
Barbara has sent that back to you. So do you have access to your email?
It's listed there. It's a two page document. It's clearly written, I think. But I would rather it be
presented by a staff member [INAUDIBLE]. And it might be that after we hear that we could
take a quick break to allow them all to log off and log back on.
So is either one of you there? Could we, at this point, with apologies to the people who have yet
to ask a question. Can you recap the follow up memo for this September 15, 2020 study session
that offered a suggested change to the furlough and salary reduction schedule?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder if I may?
SHELLEY COOK: Uh huh. Yeah, please, help me out here.

MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, just to be clear, we are having a discussion right now on a
pending motion on Director Menten's proposed resolution. And we're not here to take action on
any proposal by the staff. That wasn't noted. That's not part of this agenda. So unless the
Directors feel they need to hear that proposal right now in order to be able to make a decision
and vote on the current motion that's pending, I would recommend you keep that separate.
SHELLEY COOK: That was sort of my initial inclination but several people seem to want to
read about it. But what we'll do is we'll continue. And then as we take advantage of that break to
hop over the four hour hump folks could check their email. So that's going to kind of be my
suggestion here. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. My suggestion would have been the other one, which is that, I
think people were saying they wanted to hear the staff memo. Because it was going to help them
figure out what to do on the motion. But as long as people can at some point see it that will be
useful.
I also wanted to thank Director Menten for bringing this up and carrying it home. Because I think
it's very important that we get as-- well, in my opinion, I think it's important that we get as much
money as we can extra to help save people's jobs. And that's one of the real pushes that I have for
this.
That I would like to see-- since we have to have so many layoffs-- I, personally, would like to
see at least the people who are fortunate enough not to be laid off to have to share some of the
pain of the people who are laid off by at least having some cut without being excessive. And in
my opinion, 10% in comparison to people who are losing their jobs is very little. And I think it's
too little, actually.
But one of the things I wanted to say is, I didn't catch it that Director Menten had made this a
permanent thing. And I could never support that. I don't want the right to determine people's
permanent salaries. But as an emergency, I think it's appropriate that we get involved with this.
Because frankly, I want to save as much money as possible.
So I wanted to say that. I would never vote for this as a final without a limit of no more than a
year on it. So yes, we did receive lots of comments from staff. And because of that, even though
originally I was in agreement with the money that was determined by Director Menten, I'm
thinking now that I'd like to see it softened.
And I'd like to see some combination set up put up where there is at least a few days of forfeiture
and it's not all a pay cut. But that it's a combination that the staff had originally suggested. And I
like the idea of six days, personally. I think that's a reasonable number. And I'd like to see a
combination.
And also, we had a staff member suggest a greater number of tiers as a way to prevent there
being a huge jump if you just miss a cut off. And I like that idea, too. So I think there could be a
greater number of tiers. And I, personally, would suggest slightly less a maximum of 12% and
going down five tiers 2% each. And I think that would end up being fair.

So that's about it. I do want to say that this is very difficult and nobody, I know myself, but
nobody else is taking this lightly. And it's a very difficult process. And we're actually sorry this
has to happen. But we're in financial straits and we have to deal with this. So anyway, thank you
very much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. We're at close to the four hour mark, probably are at that mark for some
people who logged on early. And what I'd like to do is let's take a-- let's suggest a 10 minute
break. And in that time we'll need to do a couple of things. One is to log off and long back on.
And secondly, check your email. If you haven't already had a chance to go through to the extent
that you think it's important to look at that memo, please do that now. But as Melanie Snyder
pointed out, we're not voting on that now. We're voting on this separate proposal. OK.
That's what I'll do unless Chair Rivera-Malpiede Barbara McManus has a concern about that. I'd
like to just go ahead and break right now for 10 minutes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. So Madam Chair, just so I might, it is 9:26 currently so at 9:36
we'll log back on, correct?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much, yes, for putting that point on it. At 9:36 we'll be back
on and ready to go. OK?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. We're taking a break now. OK. We'll go forward here.
Director Menten has suggested that I return to her after others have spoken. So I'll jump over her
temporarily. And Director Mihalik, do you have comments or questions here?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am supportive of this. It's certainly unfortunate
with so many other things that have happened this year. But it's definitely not unique. In fact,
many companies took this on several months ago as a means to reduce what would ultimately be
the number of layoffs that they had to do.
Another-- and I don't think Director Menten mentioned it, maybe she did-- but Lyft was another
one that did something very, although similar, but to a greater degree. It was 30% for their
executives, 20%, and then a 10% for the rest of exempt employees. They didn't even have a floor
on it.
And so whether you want to look at this as saving or reducing what the ultimate layoff number
would be, or adding back service faster, or putting more service, it's just an unfortunate reality.
That's all I got. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. One issue I'd like to start with is that
we have consistently throughout these discussions, I think, I submit, rather in-artfully spoken of

salary reductions. I believe that perhaps, and at least it's my intention, to address this as salary
abatement for our support and professional staff.
In other words, an individual who is making $100 a year-- I use that to make the math simple for
my brain. An individual who is making $100 a year who has an abatement of 10% can say his
salary is $100. Now he's only going to get paid $90 because $10 has been abated. But it saves
him from the difficulty of reporting a reduced salary of $90.
And you may say, well, that's more nuanced than most people would think. But I think about
people who are providing information and reports to banks, credit agencies, other lenders, who
would at least prefer to be able to say I have been subject to a temporary abatement of my salary.
My salary is $100. I'm going to get paid $90 over the next 12 months. But my salary is $100.
That, to some extent, takes away also this concept of this is setting a new norm and a ceiling, if
you will, for these individuals of our support and professional staff. So that's one issue.
Secondly, related to that, as I have indicated, is that I think these things do need to be time
constrained. I do not like the notion of just saying there will be a salary reduction or, as I would
refer to it, a salary abatement that continues indefinitely. I would like to have it have a statement
that it will be revisited or that it will simply end at the end of a stated period. Even if it ends, that
doesn't preclude you from once again reinstating this salary abatement.
In addition, the task force is coming back to us with a retooled proposal. We did receive a copy
of that yesterday. It has been recirculated again now. And I believe that members of the task
force have contacted all or most of the Board members to discuss that. We know that that
proposal is going to come before us in a study session on October 13.
Now we also know that as to individual salaries this Board does not set those salaries. That's why
we've been proceeding under the guise of study sessions and having head nods as to how to
proceed. The Board is not being asked to take an affirmative action in this regard.
This motion takes it out of that model and presents to us a specific resolution to create this salary
abatement slash reduction. And that's something that I think many of the Board members feel
uncomfortable with.
Now there are two options, I suppose, present here. Number one, we could simply go ahead and
have a vote. And it is very possible that the motion will fail. But the statement has been made
and the discussion has been had and that is good.
There is another possibility, and that is that we could move to postpone to a certain time this
motion. Said time being when a staff proposal is presented to this Board at the study session.
And the Board has an opportunity to consider it. And that such action, i.e. this motion, be taken
up again after the Board has had the benefit of that consideration. I think dealing with it now
without that consideration may be unfair.

So as I said, we could simply go ahead and have a vote on this. And perhaps it fails, perhaps it
passes. But I think that a more-- I submit a more informed choice would be to postpone this
matter to a certain time. Said time being following the presentation of the staff proposal at the
study session on October 13.
And so I've kind of talked myself into that. So therefore, I move to postpone this matter to a
certain time. Such time being after the staff proposal is presented to the Board in the study
session on October 13. And I will note, for the sake of the record, that I believe the motion does
require a second. It is debatable-JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: But I think the precedent set-JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: --in motion.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Madame Chair, I heard a couple of seconds.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Is the chair there?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm saying, I'm not speaking so I'm not sure.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, oh, it was the mute problem. They ought to add that phrase to the
Merriam Webster for 2020.
[LAUGHTER]
SHELLEY COOK: I was on mute, sorry.
[LAUGHTER]
SHELLEY COOK: The motion was by Director Tisdale and I heard a second, perhaps, by Jeff
Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Got it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, this is Director Folska. Before you take a vote on this
motion I would be very keen to hear what the other Director's comments are.

SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Oh, you mean-- well, OK. The problem is I think we have to take up the
motion to postpone previous. So if, Melanie Snyder, if I'm incorrect let me know. But I do intend
to take comment on the motion to postpone. Melanie Snyder am I correct? We need to take this
matter up before we go through the remainder of the comments on the main motion?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that's correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. So starting with Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I'm going to go at the
other end. Do you have any comments or suggestions about the motion to postpone? Please, go
ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I would like to move with the main motion. And
then, I believe, we can discuss adjustments after that vote is taken. So I am against the
postponement.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Williams, any comments there?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I have nothing to say on this one and a lot to say on the original one.
So I am opposed to this.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I am inclined to support the motion to postpone. I know that might create
some other issues timing wise. But I'd like to hear the rest of the Board's comments as well.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Yeah. Director Walker, you're our seconder, any comments to add here?
JEFF WALKER: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I would not support the motion to postpone.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I actually would support the motion to postpone. So that we could talk
more about the period of time, the definition of revisiting this, because it was not meant to be
permanent. It was meant to be open ended. And by postponing, that allows us the opportunity to
dig into those details a little more.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I would support the motion to postpone. Because I think that we're in the
middle of a conversation about this very important issue. And it is my hope that we could

actually all work together and come up with a compromise that is the higher good and that most
of us can agree to. So I would like to see that time and would support the motion.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow?
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Can you get it open?
JUDY LUBOW: Excuse me?
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow, do you [AUDIO OUT]?
[BEEPING]
[BACKGROUND NOISE]
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis, sorry about that.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, OK.
[BACKGROUND NOISE]
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a process question. To Director Menten's point-- and I'm sure Doug
Tisdale, or Director Tisdale, might be able to answer this. But I might direct this to our General
Counsel.
In the event that we were to postpone this motion, this motion would come back to us the way
it's presented currently? Or with Director Menten and other Directors who have the opportunity
to change this motion to be something more acceptable to other Board Directors?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please, go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, so if the motion is postponed it would come back to the Board in the
form that it is. And it would be-- there would be an opportunity to further amend the motion at
that time.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And since we're getting with staff-- Director Lewis, do you have any
other questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry.
SHELLEY COOK: I was going to barge in and then I realized you may not be done. So please,
do you have any other comments, questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, go ahead.

SHELLEY COOK: No, actually, I was going to ask the other staff members present if this has-if a delay of this length-- has any impact on the budget developments. So I'd prefer you to go
ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well this is probably not surprising to Director Menten because I shared this
with her offline. But I actually would support the motion being postponed. Because it would give
us an opportunity to really look at the budget more comprehensively.
And one of the things I was concerned about is that we were making decisions, and not Director
Menten by any sorts, but as a collective that we were making decisions that were kind of
piecemealed together. And so I think this gives us an opportunity to really align our budget, our
budget priorities, and to put forward recommendations. That makes the most sense.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. I'm sorry to have interrupted you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: Let me direct that question, if I could, since we're getting with staff here.
Can somebody-- if you're not ready to respond now, but just following up on Shontel Lewis's,
Director Lewis's, question. Are we talking about impacts to our budget process here by putting
that off?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So what we were anticipating was depending on which way the vote
went tonight, we would either incorporate in the October 13 presentation the staff proposal or, if
it was approved by the Board tonight, Director Menten's proposal.
KATE WILLIAMS: We get that we're immune. I'm going to leave in a minute.
SHELLEY COOK: Kate, you may be off mute.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So from a timing perspective, we need to be doing that now. We're
also working on incorporating revised revenue so that we can present a package with final-- get
final input from you on October 13. Then October 20 we were going to wrap up the final
approvals on the pension contributions and other things such as that benefit package for final
approval on November. So this would severely tighten that time frame if we don't get that clear
direction tonight.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Thanks for letting me interject in there, Director Lewis.
Anything else? I just am wanting to make sure I gave you adequate time there to ask questions
and so forth.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just one more question. So if we were to go-- Is it possible for staff to go-to add the numbers in the budget that Director Menten has proposed? Assuming that this may or
may not pass but we would at least have that already accounted for in the budget, those
percentages. So that the Board could see what that looks like versus a proposal that staff might
put forward.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, we were not planning on doing that. We were not putting in a staff
proposal into the budget on the 13th unless the Board took specific action contrary to that
tonight.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I think that's our job tonight it sounds like.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: But, OK. So all right then, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. You know, I don't-- I'm not seeing the value in postponing. It
seems to me like we've seen the memo from staff. And we know what Director Menten is
proposing. And I tend to agree with Director Buzek that we have a new CEO coming in.
I think the staff has listened to us and moved their proposal up. And they did, somebody
mentioned that, we hadn't started this earlier, but they did take nine furlough days-- I think it was
nine-- this year. And I think that we have the information we need to make a decision. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Speaking to the motion to postpone, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I support the motion to postpone.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Just moving along here, Director Catlin? Well, actually, I'm going to-you were-- let me just take myself a turn here. I would agree we need to make a decision about
this tonight.
First of all, it's really hard, I think, on staff thinking that this might be a possibility. They've
already had to consider it. We've been getting feedback. To draw that out another month I think
is a disservice to them.
So I think it's better from that standpoint to make a decision tonight. We'll have the main motion
if this goes down. And what we can do then as well is marshal our arguments. But this is our job
tonight. And it is difficult.

And I would just strongly suggest that in the best interests of both the staff members, the people
who are affected, and then also the process, allowing this to go forward in the time frame with
the work that we need to have on it. That we should let it go. I do agree-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, Director Folska, here. I'm sorry. I forgot to mention something.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, hold on a second. And what I would say is that our-- in our COVID
principles we did ask the staff to come up with a well-rounded package of cuts or responses. And
when they originally presented the information to us they-- we indicated, I think, we went around
and it was pretty clear that we thought that, first of all, the furloughs were of a concern.
We didn't think it would be healthy for the organization and the services we provide for that
many furlough days, especially at the upper end. And that salary cuts needed to be a part of-- and
temporary salary cuts, to clarify-- needed to be, probably, a part of the picture.
Well they've responded to that. Now we, maybe, haven't had a chance to take that up. But we
will. And right now what we're looking at is this particular motion. And I agree, we have the
information that we need to do it.
And it would be a disservice to both the people and the process to postpone it beyond tonight. So
OK, Director Folska, you had something you wanted to add back in?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I'm sorry. Yeah, I'm sorry. Because I wanted to be brief but, you
know, it's being postponed anyway, staff has done that. And they're postponing it until the 13th.
And I think it is appropriate if we postpone this after our ongoing discussion.
Because we haven't heard what everybody on the Board thinks. That we postpone it so that we
can look at the two proposals side by side and really dig into the details there. You know, it's our
job to set the policy. That's all. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. And Director Catlin, sorry to have imposes myself in there.
Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, no, that's not a problem. I appreciate it. And I'm a little bit torn. I'm
hearing arguments on both sides, postpone or not to postpone. But I realize that in leaving staff
in limbo, what do they assume for the budget? And I'm inclined to agree that we probably need
to make a decision tonight. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. No, to postponement. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No, on postponement.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Let's take that vote, if we could. Now this is the motion of the
amendment to postpone to a time certain, was it, October 13 I-UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: We just took that vote.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, actually, I was taking-UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: That was the vote.
SHELLEY COOK: Well-UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: No, that was the vote. Everybody voted, we don't need to vote
again.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Barbara, did you perceive that that was a vote? Or were we getting
comments there, sorry?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I did not take that tally. Because when you entered into that you said
it was discussion.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. I'm going to-- just to be safe and to make sure everybody
knows now that we're voting-- I'm going to go around and start with the Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
can you please vote on the motion to postpone to a time certain?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten? OK. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a no. So let me count yeses. And Barbara, just verify for me. 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6. 6 yeses and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 no's. Is that what you found, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Madam Chair, I have 9 no's and 6 yeses. The no's I found-UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: I would concur with the 9 no votes, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's correct.
SHELLEY COOK: What I showed was Directors Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Guissinger,
Menten, Mihalik, Whitmore, Williams, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede as no's.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. Madam Chair?

SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is Broom is no, Buzek is no, Catlin is no, Cook is no,
Guissinger is no, Lewis is yes, Lubow is yes, Menten is yes, Mihalik is no, Tisdale is yes,
Walker is yes, Whitmore is no, Williams is a no, and I am a no, and Director Folska is a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, if I said something different I thought that's what I was saying. But
yes, I agree. My tally agrees with that. And Barbara your tally agrees with that, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So that motion to postpone fails with 6 votes in favor and 9 votes
opposed. OK? And next, let's proceed with the main motion, if we can. OK. First of all, we had a
couple of questions or people who had yet to comment. And Director Tisdale made the motion
so Director Walker, on the main motion, we're back at questions or comments on the main
motion. Do you have any?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I'll be quick. So in its current form I can't support it. That's why I was
hoping that we could postpone and tighten it up and add some detail. So there's not enough detail
for me. And I don't have enough information to add anything to it tonight.
Staff is coming up with something soon. So we have something that we can discuss. The
duration of change, it can last for however long we want to. We can change the budget weekly if
we want. Not a good practice, but it's possible. So we could always change this resolution at
some point in the future. So I'm not that worried about the change. Although it does provide
some level of certainty.
One of the problems that I see with this is that it could put some managers in the position where
they're making less than the people that they supervise. If the managers at the low end of the
scale [AUDIO OUT] one of the people on their team is at the upper end, these cuts could upset
that balance that's typically found in work settings.
So unfortunately, I can't support it as proposed. But that doesn't stop it from coming back after
more discussion is had on this issue if not this specific resolution. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you very much. Director Whitmore, on the main motion do you
have any comments or questions?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions. I struggled mightily with this item. But I'm probably going
to be a no vote on the main motion as well. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, I have a number of comments. We are now
at 40% of our ridership, and 50% of our service, yet we are paying 100% of our salary. And we
are doing that through the end of the year due to CARES funding not because we have the

money. Right now there's no more CARES funding in 2021. Which is what we are looking at
now.
We have to reduce our expenses. Our union has to reduce their expenses. We are all in this
together. And right now we're looking at laying off roughly one-fifth of all of our employees.
I've asked, repeatedly, for everybody to take a 20% cut in pay so that no one has to be laid off.
And I'm not getting anyplace with that.
I asked the head of our union to call in his top 25 guys and fire 5 of them or would they all rather
take a 20% pay cut and keep their jobs. Because that's what we're looking at. If the options are
we have to reduce our expenses.
And if we have to reduce our expenses by laying off 20% of our workforce across the board or
would everybody rather take a 20% cut in pay and keep their job. And know that the guy sitting
next to them is keeping their job. And we just keep talking about it and talking about it. So I am
opposed to any postponement. And I am in favor of Director Menten's proposal. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I have been thinking a lot
about this. This has been, probably, the most difficult decision that I've had to deal with being a
Director.
But here's what I would like to say. We have had several special Board meetings. We have been
briefed 2 by 2s. We have talked to our staff. We have talked about percentages weren't high
enough, they weren't low enough, we needed to come up with a plan of. action.
And I have to say that our team, our task force, that was appointed by Mr. Ballard has done their
due diligence. They have listened to what we've asked them to do. And they have compromised.
If you have read the memo and looked at their outlined clearly, they listened to what we said at
the last special Board meeting. And I think that, you know, if we as governors, as elected
officials, are doing our due diligence we need to look at the whole picture holistically and make
sure that we're making the decision to the best of our ability.
Because we are talking about families here. We're not just talking about employees but whole
families. But I would just say, for the record, that I cannot support Director Menten's proposal as
it is written, at least not this evening. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And before returning to Director Menten to respond to any of the
comments I would add my own on the main motion. I agree we put out principles. We said we'd
like the response to be well rounded.
We identified the particular kinds of cuts at the hearing a week ago, a few weeks ago. We
indicated that it wasn't quite there. And the staff responded. And so we have left it-- there is an

implicit value that those who are arguing for salary cuts sufficient to save all our jobs. I
understand that.
But when you kind of drill down into that we don't know the particular situation, the extent of
hurt, that that might mean for people. And the balance is in, sort of, the thinking of the task force
in response to what we've said. And I have to respect what they've come up with.
It's as Director Buzek said, we're otherwise just picking a number. I don't feel enough of a
comfort level with the data that Director Menten came forward with to know that they-- that that
necessarily would relate to us. Plus, we have a particular situation in a group of people who have
been charged with taking all of that into account.
So I don't-- once as Director Guissinger said, at the end of this year we'll likely have better
information, real data, about where our comp-plan is and how it might be adjusted. And that's
what I would support, is going with a system that has integrity, that has looked at the market, has
done it in a methodical way. And not just pull a number out of the air because of what we're
perceiving that might be saved.
So anyway, that's where I'm coming down. I'm opposed to the motion. And we'll turn it over to
you, Director Menten, to respond to questions and comments or points that have been made. But
I would ask you to go light on the comparison with the staff memo. Because that isn't the item
that we're voting on tonight. OK, go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Let's go back to, first of all, my comment-- and this has been a long
running comment-- that RTD salaries do not compare to CDOT. And I can give examples. The
very top-- this is back from the November numbers but it's pretty close.
The top Executive Director at CDOT making just under $180,000 a year. And at RTD we are
right now sitting at $350,000 prior to that just under $300,000. Let's take another top executive
position. And please tell me how this is not comparable. When we have the CFO at CDOT
making $150,000. And at RTD, as I pull up the tiered comparison here, instead of 150,000 we've
got 230 over 230,000.
And those examples continue on the top. So I don't see how that is not comparable. And that is
what part of this effort was to do. And it should have been done before COVID, long before
now. We've dug ourselves into a hole.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me Madame, excuse me Madam Chair, can I interrupt? There's a
correction. There is no $350,000 number out there for our CEO. So I-NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. I said-PEGGY CATLIN: That is not a-NATALIE MENTEN: I--

PEGGY CATLIN: No, no.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: We don't even have that now. So I take offense at that. So I don't want that to
be on the record.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. I meant to-- I-- OK. So first I started with the CEO, 350,000.
And then if I did misspeak, I apologize. The CFO comparable is 200 over 230,000. So did I
misspeak?
PEGGY CATLIN: With regard to the 350 number for the CEO, yes, you did misspeak. We have
not even negotiated a number yet. And that's not nearly-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Paul Ballard. She was talking about Paul Ballard.
PEGGY CATLIN: That is-KATE WILLIAMS: Ballard.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK. All right. But that's not an apples to apples comparison. So I don't
even think we need to go there. I'm sorry. I'm sensitive to that. But-NATALIE MENTEN: I'm very sensitive to it, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I just wanted this-- I just wanted to state for the record that that's not
where we are. OK. Thank you. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to disrupt. I did not to disrupt.
SHELLEY COOK: No that's all right. I wanted you to have the ability to correct that. Because
you're Chair of the GMES and yes, with regards to the 350K just let it be clear, there is-- that is a
misstatement of the CEO's. Go ahead, Natalie, on the rest.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry, what was that? We are paying the CEO $350,000. Is anybody
arguing that right now?
SHELLEY COOK: OK. You're talking about Paul Ballard. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: As an interim. An interim CEO compared to a permanent CEO at CDOT.
PEGGY CATLIN: Without benefits.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.

DOUG TRISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, Director Trisdale?
DOUG TRISDALE: Madame Chair, point of order.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
DOUG TRISDALE: I'm just going to ask, can we please wait to be recognized by the chair? For
the sake of the record, and for the sake of the public, and for the sake of each other.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. OK. Natalie, you still have the floor. Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Good deal. All right. So even prior to that, we had the last permanent
General Manager making $299,000 compared to CDOT at again under $190,000. I think it's
more like 180,000.
We see this problem in our senior executive team. And what I'm looking out for is the tax payers.
And I don't even think these layoffs have really-- I don't know that they've really hit us in the gut
yet, what we're looking at. So when I hear that-- well, I won't go down there.
But when I heard earlier that this was-- I pulled numbers out of the air, I've got the spreadsheets.
I've done the quarter requests. I've got the data. I think these are reasonable in light of what the
agency is looking at right now.
And if somebody is looking at a 10% reduction, or a 15% reduction, or a 5% reduction, but they
still have their job, I don't think that's a lot to ask right now. And when I see what is happening in
the public sector, private sector, [SIGHING] it's not a pretty picture right now.
So as I said, I did not see this as a permanent reduction. But it is open ended. Because the
discussion needs to be with the Board who has the authority over the budget, and the budget
includes compensation, that what are we going to do to send the message that we are willing to
tighten the belt all the way around in light of the layoffs that are coming up.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. It's time to move on to the vote. So I'll start with Director
Broom.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis. This is Director Lewis.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom? We've already gone around. I'd like to really proceed into a
vote.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I appreciate that. So during my comments I said that I would like to
offer a friendly amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Well it will have to be voted on, but go ahead.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, yes, that's how that works. So the amendment that I would like to
offer up is to move forward with additional tiers. And so-- sorry I'm getting a little bit of
feedback. So maybe folks can put their phones on mute. As well as with an end date.
And so the first tier would be between 150,000 and above. And that tier would see a 13%
reduction. The second tier would be between $125,000 149,999.99. That tier would see a 9%
reduction.
The third tier would be $100,000 to $124,999. That tier would see a 6% reduction. The fourth
tier would be between 80 and 99,999.99. That tier would be 4%-- would see a 4% reduction.
And tier 5 would be between 60 and 79,999.99. And that tier would see a 2% reduction. I would
also encourage us to add as a reduction effective date. And I think someone else on this call
mentioned that we wanted to see the salary review survey. And so maybe we say that this would
be in effect for 2021. And we would make additional adjustments once we had access to that
data. That's my amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Just to recap, it's adding two tiers, no longer three tiers. Topping out at
13% for 150 plus, 120 to 140,999 at 9%, 100 to 124,999 at 6%, 80 to 99,999 at 4%, 60 to 79,999
at 2%, and the reduction end date coordinated with the completion of the compensation study.
We don't have information about financial impact or et cetera. But, first of all, is there a second
on this?
JUDY LUBOW: Can I ask a point of order?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: I thought-- this is Judy Lubow. I thought I heard Director Lewis say it would be
for '21. So that it would end the end of '21. But it would also be coordinated with the
compensation study. Is that accurate, Shontel?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, so I said with a effective date of 2021, so January of 2021, and an end
date of 2021. But we would also revisit the reduction for '20, once we had the salary-- the data-I'm sorry-- the salary survey data.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. So it wouldn't last more than a year?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, ma'am.
JUDY LUBOW: Is that correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's correct.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, that's-- Oh, good.
SHONTEL LEWIS: But we would--

JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: But we could revisit it. I just want to-JUDY LUBOW: Got it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: We could-- we should revisit it when we have that data.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm happy to second that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So we've got a motion by Director Lewis with that clarification that the
end date is at or coordinated with the review but in no case later than 2021. Did I get that
correct? Did I get that right, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You did get that correct. Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. I think we need to go through and ask for any discussion.
- Why
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Broom, any discussion of the motion?
BOB BROOM: No discussion of the motion. It's clear.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek, on the motion to amend any discussion, questions?
VINCE BUZEK: Nope.
SHELLEY COOK: No. OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wish I could see the fiscal impact of it. I think the spirit of it is great.
But I just don't know about the fiscal impact. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, no comment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow, anything, any comments to add here?

JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, I'll be supporting it. I would have liked to have added that it would
include six furlough days as a combination. But right now I'm too tired to do anything more. So
I'll just say what I say.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Could I come at the end?
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No comments or questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No comment at this time. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I'm with Director Catlin. I'd like to see what the impact is, what the savings
are. But other than that, I have no comments or questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No comments or questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I have no comments, Madam Chair. And I apologize for speaking out of
turn.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No comments, no questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten, you wanted me to return to you?
NATALIE MENTEN: I was quickly populating my spreadsheet but did not get all the way down
to the end. I do support this motion. I don't know that we got a second so I second.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow did second. it.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, OK.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Let's go ahead with a vote. All right, turn to a new sheet here. Director
Broom?

BOB BROOM: No.
SHELLEY COOK: This is a motion to add the tiers and the end date as suggested by Director
Lewis. OK. Director Broom is no. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, only for the reason I cited.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry about that. Yes, I do. But like also, Director Walker mentioned
earlier, both of these proposals could be re-positioned later if they should fail. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So your vote was? Sorry. Director Folska-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: My vote was yes. Sorry.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: While I support the notion of additional tiers, I cannot support this motion in
this form at this time. The vote is a no.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Walker? Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry. I thought I hit un-mute. No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Unfortunately, no.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a no. So let me count. I count 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 yeses. And they are
Director Lewis, Director Lubow, Director Menten, Director Mihalik, and Director Folska. And
10 nos. Director Broom, Direct Buzek, Director Catlin, Director Cook, Director Guissinger,
Director Tisdale, Director Walker, Director Whitmore, Director Williams, and Chair RiveraMalpiede. Barbara McManus that jive with your count?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it does.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So we're back at the main motion. And I'll just go around again, if I
may. Looks like the sheet I have starts us with-- I've used up all the-- except for going from the
rear. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, may I have your vote on the main motion, please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, my vote on the main motion is no.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. OK. Director Williams, your vote on the main motion, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: My vote on the main motion is yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore, your vote on the main motion, please?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Walker, your vote on the main motion?
JEFF WALKER: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I want to say yes. But I am saying that I would not vote for yes as a final unless
there were changes. But at this stage, it's a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a no. I hear the mourning in everybody's voices.
[LAUGHTER]
OK. So we've got either in both sides. OK. So we've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. I count 6 yeses. Director
Williams, Director Mihalik, Director Menten, Director Lubow, Director Lewis, Director Folska.
And 9 nos. If I did this correct. Director Whitmore, Director Walker, Director Tisdale, Director

Guissinger, Director Cook, Director Catlin, Director Buzek, Director Broom, and Chair RiveraMalpiede. Did that jive with yours, Barbara McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So I show the motion as failing. And just to recap from what Heather
McKillop said, I believe where this leaves us is that the staff is going to factor into their budget
planning the proposal that was provided by the staff. And then it will be presented to us on
October 13 as part of that presentation. Did I get that correct CFO McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is correct. And then we can have the discussion on October
13.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So there-- this is not the last we'll take this up. But for the purposes of
moving forward the staff is going to incorporate the provisions of the memo that was sent out
yesterday and that we've gotten again tonight.
OK. Listen, I want to thank everybody. This is difficult, very difficult. And many have
acknowledged that. But I wanted to underscore that taking up these questions we really do want
to convey a concern for our employees and for the impacts of either and/or layoffs and salary
impacts.
So this is difficult and nothing any of us ever thought we signed up for, I don't think. So just
appreciate the good work on the part of the staff and the task force and the many comments that
we've received so far. So, OK. I'd like to move on to updates.
And first of all, Director Lewis had asked that we pull the live program from information into an
update. So I failed to give staff a warning about that. But Director Lewis, do you have particular
questions that you'd like to make sure that are addressed or items that you want to bring up here?
Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Madame Chair. I appreciate it. I had a concern about
the live program and the data that was presented to us under the updates. Particularly as it
pertains to the folks that were denied entry into the live program because of the request for photo
or additional information.
And there were a number of concerns, or there were a number of folks who were denied because
of a lack of photo. And I was curious as to what strategy staff had in place to be able to address
that. Because it was a pretty significant number of folks that were denied due to photo.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, go ahead, please.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So actually, due to photos, they're not denied. They're put in a pending
situation. So of the 911 pending applications all applicants lacked an updated photo. So they are
contacted multiple times to remind them to upload a photo.
After a certain period of time-- and I'll have to check on that. I think it's 90 days but I could be
wrong. Then they go back to having to resubmit their application again. But there is follow up
that's done on those pending applications if they don't have a photo.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And what are you seeing, in terms of folks who don't have a photo and have
received multiple reminders to upload their photos? Are you seeing that those reminders are
working or-HEATHER MCKILLOP: You know, I would have to check. I'm sorry, Madam Chair. This is
Heather, again. I'd have to check on that to get that data for you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that would be helpful. I'm particularly interested in this as we are
seeing folks losing large amounts or all of their income and really wanting this program to be
accessible. I know we moved it from update.
But I think it is something that we as a Board should be paying attention to. And so I'm just
curious of some of the strategies that we are implementing to ensure that we're making sure folks
that are eligible for the program are actually being enrolled in the program. And so I'd appreciate
that information.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure, I'll be glad to get that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: And can you get it to all of us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, yeah, definitely. We'll send it out through Barbara.
SHELLEY COOK: Any other comments on the live program update?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, that was it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Anybody else?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. This is Guissinger.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, just briefly, that I've shared that concern as well. That we may not
be reaching the population that we need to be reaching with that requirement and some of the
requirements. So I think that's worth spending a little time looking at. So thanks for for what you
can send us.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Anybody else? OK. Doug MacLeod can you recap the July 2019
monthly financial status, please?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod. There were no
substantial changes from the month of June. So I would, at this late hour, just ask for questions,
if that's OK?
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I'll go with that. Did you all have a chance, if you haven't please take a
look and get with Doug MacLeod. But if you have questions now please feel free to chime in.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, Director Broom, go ahead.
BOB BROOM: Did we get updated sales tax projections from Leeds?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we did have a meeting with Leeds last Thursday, I believe it was.
We discussed their philosophy and some numbers. We'll be getting those reports to send out to
the Board prior to the October 13 meeting. And we are working-- reviewing those numbers that
they did give us. And how those will impact the budget for '21 and beyond. But they are better
than we anticipated.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Well obviously, how much better is the question we'll have. But I guess, let's
wait until you completely develop it. And then we can have more questions. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, and we plan on presenting that information on the 13th. And
then the Leeds will be available on October 20 to do their normal presentation in September.
And we've given them a list of questions that we had anticipated, we had ourselves, and we
anticipate that the Board will ask.
SHELLEY COOK: So Ms. McKillop, understanding that we need to insert asterisks or caveats
or something, I think it would be useful to see the forecast in the way that you've circulated
previous forecasts. And again, you can make sure that we're clear. That you're still incorporating
it, analyzing it, et cetera. But for my part, I'd like to see that data or I'd like to see that report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We will have that report available to you. I believe, the second Friday
of October we'll be sending it out to the Board
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I'll quibble with you about when offline, if that's OK. OK. So moving
on to information items. I had requested that the fiscal policies currently in effect be included

here as an information item. And in order to give us a little bit more head time to consider the
changes that will be coming forward.
I mean, ideally, you would take up your fiscal policies ahead of the development of the budget.
And they don't change too much year to year. So we've mainly done it in the same time frame.
But they may have to change this year, simply because conditions are so different.
So what I'd encourage you to do-- it's not actually as dry as you might think-- is to start going
through fiscal policies with an eye toward what you might be seeing as suggested changes. And
then please also let Heather McKillop know of changes that you're interested in seeing. Director
Menten, you may have had something to add here. Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Over the years there's been comments that there were some proposed
changes and I didn't know when those were coming. I'm sorry. I was focused on a spreadsheet.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, no worries.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. So in the memo I asked for comments. If you have
suggested comments or changes or even questions if you can get those to me by Friday, October
2nd because we will be providing you with the red line version for review, discussion, and
adoption at the October 20th meeting.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for adding those details. I really appreciate it. Thank you. OK.
We're on to other matters. We're really in the homestretch here. Anybody have anything to bring
up under other matters?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do. This is Peggy Catlin, Madam Chair. Thank you. Sorry for the-- I just
wanted to say, I apologize that I got a little bit heated about the salary considerations. And I do
apologize to Director Menten and to others. But they really are not apples to apples. And I just
wanted to make that clear. So I wanted to make that apology.
And I also wanted to point out that it is after 10:30 on a Tuesday night and, as with many of our
Tuesday nights, our salaried and support staff are here and available for us well into the late
night. And for this they do not get compensated.
And these discussions about salary reductions, particularly at the upper level, are particularly
troubling for me since I definitely value all that our support and senior leadership and other
salaried staff provide to us during the course of each and every month and each and every year.
And I just wanted to point out that they're still hanging here in with us and doing a very, very
commendable job. And I just wanted to point that out. That Board or commission meetings for
CDOT are held during the workday. And there is a lot of work done there.

But they are not subject, their senior staff is not subject, to the late hours that our senior staff is
and salaried staff is being subject to at this time. And so I just wanted to personally thank each
and every one of you who are still on the call who are here to support us in our deliberations and
in our work. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Well stated. Thank you. I echo it all. So anybody else under other matters?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, sorry.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I'll second what Director Catlin said. Because I've attended some
of those CDOT meetings back in the day. I also want to make sure that I was clear about APTA's
reduced membership revenue. That comes from a reduction in the number of members not in a
reduction of any membership dues for any individual member.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thanks for that clarification.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Did I hear Chair Rivera-Malpiede there too in the background?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Madam Chair, thank you so much. I just want to echo First
Vice Chair Catlin's remarks about our staff. They really do an amazing job and thank you very
much for being here.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you. And they'll be back first thing in the morning. So OK. With
no other matter-NATALIE MENTEN: I have a comment.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, go ahead, Director Menten. NATALIE MENTEN: So I got my
spreadsheet done.
[LAUGHTER]
NATALIE MENTEN: And-SHELLEY COOK: We've already closed out that item. You know we'll be talking about it in
October as well. OK. This is for others matters.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, but I want to I-- I-- Yeah, well we had other comments about the
salary so--

SHELLEY COOK: We're going to be-NATALIE MENTEN: So I just want to-- I just want to-- I just want to throw it out that Shontel's
amendment would have resulted in $4 million savings. Still $1.5 more million than we're sitting
now.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: There you go.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. All right, everybody. OK. We'll go ahead and take a motion to
adjourn. Do I have a motion to adjourn?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you Director Menten?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Malpiede. And who was the second?
BOB BROOM: Broom.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Bob Broom. All right. Are there any objections to the motion to
adjourn? All right. Hearing none, we'll call the meeting done. It's 10:43 PM. Thank you
everybody, everybody listening, everybody there among our staff, and the Board members as
well. Good night.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Thank you, Shelley.
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Good night.

