Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 11, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

Date:

January 11, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on January 11 at 5:30 p.m. in
Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen, Directors Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Director McMullen participated via phone.
Chair Kemp; Director Riley

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Lee Cryer, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Jane
Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Anthony
Menendez, Karen Morales, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff,
Scott Reed, Joshua Jackson Robinson-RTD Intern, Jannette Scarpino,
Daria Serna, Danielle Smith, MaryAnn Strombitski, Bill Sirois, Jim
Starling, Greg Straight, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill
Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Kenneth Burns - CAC, Mac Callison – Aurora, Steve Cook – DRCOG,
Audrey Debarros – 36 Commuter Solutions, Laura Masias – Southeast
Business Partnership, Jim Paulmeno – CDOT, Roger Sherman, Julie
Skeen, Mike Schrodis, Debra Wilcox-CAC
****

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen, called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

Director Cohen acknowledged Director McMullen as the former chair of the
FasTracks Monitoring Committee. Director McMullen shared it was a good 2 year
run for him and he appreciated the opportunity to chair.


CAC Update
Director Cohen announced that the agenda has been changed to put the CAC update

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 11, 2011
Page 2
first on the agenda. This will be a standing change in consideration for the CAC
member’s time.
 CAC
Debra Wilcox and Kenneth Burns provided this update. For their January kickoff,
they will do a tour of the Eagle project on January 19th and will have their meeting
at DUS. Board members are welcome to attend.



Recommended Action
 Recommendation for Contract Amendment to Kaplan Kirsch and Rockwell for
Legal Assistance- Railroad Negotiations
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend the current contract with Kaplan
Kirsch and Rockwell (KKR) for assistance in negotiations with the Union Pacific (UP)
and BNSF Railroads by extending the term to December 31, 2014 and authorizing
additional funds up to $500,000 with $125,000 of that budgeted in 2011.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this item forward to the full
Board on January 18, 2011.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:


The motion passed unanimously.

Updates
 2011 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)
Phil Washington teed this off by referencing the cost by corridor document that
had been included in the Board packet. The APE presentation was recently
revised that day and a revised copy provided to the Board members. This was
only a briefing and no recommended action would come tonight from staff.
Bill Van Meter began the presentation by noting they presented to 25 key
stakeholders through December 17th and received input from 16 of them. They
also received comments from 61 individuals. The results from this showed no
clear consensus but strong support for North Metro, I-225, U.S. 36 BRT and

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 11, 2011
Page 3
Northwest Rail for expending the $305M. Stakeholders also expressed a desire to
have FasTracks completed sooner than later.
They also made some assumptions around corridors eligibility for small start and
new start funding. The maximum for small start funding per project is $75M. Van
Meter expressed there will be partnering opportunities with CDOT to take
advantage of these new sources of funding for some of the corridors such as I225.
The presentation provided an overview of three packages. For a copy of the
presentation, please refer to the minute notebook located in the Board office.
1. Assumes a successful 0.4% sales and use tax election in 2012
2. Assumes a successful 0.2% sales and use tax election in 2011
3. Assumes a successful 0.1% sales and use tax election in 2011
The 0.3% sales and use tax was not modeled but believe it would just delay for
about 4 years.
Highlights from the 0.4 % model include:
 Expend on construction of operation segments on US 36, North Metro and I225. US 36: $90M financial commitment, North Metro-complete DUS to
Stock Show and I225-complete Nine Mile to Iliff
 Provide immediate benefit to Northwest Rail corridor by completing park-nride for end of line station in Longmont.
 Final design and federal environmental process for Southeast Corridor
 Relocate Union Pacific railroad Track for Southwest Corridor Extension
 Complete entire program by 2019
Highlights from the 0.2% model include:
 Expend on construction of operation segments on US 36, North Metro and I225. US 36: $90M financial commitment, North Metro-complete DUS to
Stock Show and I225-complete Nine Mile to Iliff
 Provide immediate benefit to Northwest Rail corridor by completing park-nride for end of line station in Longmont.
 Final design and federal environmental process for Southeast Corridor
 Relocate Union Pacific railroad Track for Southwest Corridor Extension
 Northwest Rail corridor completed by mid to late 2020s
 Entire program complete by 2027
Highlights from the 0.1% model include:
 Expend on construction of operation segments on US 36, North Metro and I225. US 36: $90M financial commitment, North Metro-complete DUS to
Stock Show and I225-complete Nine Mile to Iliff
 Provide immediate benefit to Northwest Rail corridor by completing park-nride for end of line station in Longmont.
 Retain $18M as contingency
 Fulfill commitment to fund US 36 to Interlocken by mid-2010’s

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 11, 2011
Page 4
 Full I-225 corridor completed by early 2020’s
 Full North Metro corridor completed by mid-2020’s
 Entire program completed by 2035
Staff also passed out FAQ’s, a copy of which is located with these minutes in the
Board office.
Comments from Board members:
 Director Daly commented on a C-SPAN program with FTA that indicated if
a promise had been made, it will get fulfilled. GM Washington indicated
that the Eagle P3 should be first in line following the withdrawal from the
Jersey project.
 Director Brohl requests that at the January 25 meeting, she would like to
see more comparison of scenarios 1, 2 & 3. She is looking for:
o More visual display
o Impact New Starts might have
o Would like the chart on page 30 to include scenario 0.3% in it even
if they did not fully model.
 Director Malpiede commended that the staff had done a stellar job with this
analysis. She expressed disappointment that more people did not provide
comments and it will take all of us to move this forward.
 Director McMullen complimented Rick Clarke for a great presentation. he is
hearing people talking about FasTracks in a more positive way. He is still
advocating for the .0.4% to get it done.
 Director Hoy asked if he understood correctly that BNSF wanted all or
nothing in building it out. Rick Clarke commented that is correct but RTD
and BNSF are in frequent conversation. Director Hoy also asked about the
New Starts and Small Starts and if they are based on efficiencies rather
than ridership. Van Meter responded it is a cost effectiveness model.
 Director Bagley inquired if there is an additional $500K needed for future
delays with BNSF. General Manager Washington indicated they will bring
back this to the January 25 meeting.
 Director Cohen commented he was happy to see consistency in the APE
from 1 year to the other. This is encouraging that we may be having a
turnaround on the project.


North Metro FEIS release
Please refer to the document schedule provided in the Board packet.



West Corridor Contingency Plan
Director Cohen introduced this item by stating he is coordinating working with his
constituents to understand what is happening to the contingency fund. They are
scheduling their first meeting for January 28. This is intended to be educational and
help them to stay proactive on issues.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, January 11, 2011
Page 5
Jim Starling provided an update and answered questions pertaining to the allocated
and unallocated contingency.


Next Meeting – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is
scheduled for February 8, 2011



Adjourn – Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at
6:47 p.m.

