July 11, 2019
Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: July 11, 2019. And we are convened here in the RTD Board conference room
on the third floor of the headquarters facility. And with us in person are the Secretary to the
Board Jeff Walker, the General Manager and CEO Dave Genova, the Board's Executive
Manager Barbara McManus. And on the telephone with us is First Vice Chair Peggy Catlin
We have other members that we expect will be attending in person shortly. But to respect
everyone's time, and to take into account a termination time that comports with the needs of
various of us, we'll commence right now. And we also have a present in the room Director
Natalie Menten.
So the first item on our agenda is the July Board meeting agenda review. This has been sent out
to everyone for their review, and it is printed in the agenda for this Executive Committee
meeting. You will note that we have a series of retiree awards. Plus we have the pleasure of
giving a special recognition to the APTA International Bus and Paratransit Roadeo participants,
who earned some rewards both for the bus procedures and for maintenance. And then also
various folks from the APTA International Rail Rodeo in the operator team competition and the
maintenance team competition.
You will see that we have a public hearing on the 2019 Amended Budget, and then one
unanimous consent agenda item and one recommended action item relative to the agenda for our
July Board meetings to be conducted on July 16. Are there any comments or considerations to be
raised by anyone in connection therewith? Hearing none, may I have a motion to approve the
agenda?
JEFF WALKER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. May have a second on that motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a second. Is there any discussion of the motion to approve the
agenda? Hearing none, would all those in favor, please indicate by saying aye.
JEFF WALKER: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Let the record reflect that unanimously, the proposed Board meeting agenda
for July 16, 2019, has now been approved. We have a series of other matters to discuss. Let me
bring them up at this time. First, we do-- and let me note, for the sake of the record, that Second

Vice Chair Angie Malpiede has joined us as well. And for your benefit, Madam Second Vice
Chair, the First Vice Chair is on the telephone with us.
Relative to the Executive Committee luncheon with the members of the-- I believe it's called the
Gold Circle for our giving campaign. You know that we just recently had our giving campaign
here at RTD. And I hope that you all had a chance to consider, if not actually participate, in that
giving campaign. It's a very worthwhile endeavor, and it's a good thing for us to support.
I enjoyed supporting the United Way, noting that United Way began here in Denver, Colorado.
And it's a funny story. A priest, a minister, and a rabbi walked into a bar. And that's how United
Way came about.
But in any event, we have-- for those people who donated at a certain level, one of the perks of
doing that is to have a lunch with the members of the Executive Committee. There are six
members of this Golden Circle. Rather than take time to pick a date right now, we wanted to
bring this to your attention so that you would consider it. And then we will ask the Executive
Manager of the Board to send out a Doodle poll, or something equivalent, thereto that will allow
us to schedule that luncheon with those people.
And I would encourage the members of the Executive Committee, please, to make yourselves as
available as you reasonably can for that purpose. Because it's something that we want to do to
show our tremendous appreciation and respect and regard for these people who made such a
commitment to the giving campaign. Are there any questions about that process and that
luncheon? Hearing none, if the Executive Manager will please follow up and get that polling out,
we would appreciate that.
Next, there was a news story that some of you heard, and were perhaps even contacted by
Channel 9 relative to it, concerning the attorney's fees award issue that arose in connection with
the DTP litigation pending in the Denver District Court. In that case, the judge indicated that the
court might have been inclined to award to RTD the requested attorney's fees for filing, and then
prosecuting, a motion to strike the jury demand that had been filed by the defendant in the case.
The judge indicated that, while the bench was inclined to make such an award, because of what
the court called unprofessional conduct on the part of RTD's outside counsel, the award would
not be granted.
The unprofessional conduct that the court very carefully enumerated consisted of the use of the
word "absurd" in a legal brief, and the use of the phrase that it was, quote, "not surprising,"
closed quote, that the defendant did not cite any legal authority. That was, in the court's view,
unprofessional conduct on the part of a lawyer. It is, of course, the court's prerogative to set its
own standards for professionalism in its court. And therefore, the award was not granted.
I am here to inform you that the outside firm involved, Dorsey & Whitney that represents us in
that case, has voluntarily agreed to refund to RTD the attorney's fees that were incurred in that
motion. That amounts to approximately $5,300 in the prosecution of that motion. Those funds
have been credited to RTD, and so RTD received the full benefit of an attorney's fee award, if

one had been granted by the court, by virtue of Dorsey & Whitney voluntarily agreeing to refund
or credit those amounts. Any questions or comments on that issue?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Hearing none, the next thing I want to bring to your attention is on various
calendar events. It's a busy time at RTD. Tomorrow, we have our 50th birthday party at Denver
Union Station. It will be conducted on the east side of the plaza.
I would actually probably call it the north side of the plaza. But that's just me. It's the side
opposite where the water fountain is, so it will be dry. So it will be over there over near the
Snooze restaurant.
It begins at 11:00. It goes until 5:30. We will have a program at 2:00 PM.
The Second Vice Chair will be there to provide an official welcome to everyone into District C,
because Union Station sits in District C. And I will serve as the emcee for the event. And we
have a star-studded cast who will be making remarks at 2:00 PM.
My anticipation and understanding is that we will absolutely be done by 3:00 PM. And we will
certainly keep it to under an hour, because at that time of day, it should be right around the 90
degrees or so. So we want to keep it moving. You are encouraged, should you have a closet full
of such things, to dress in 1969 clothing. A challenge perhaps for some of us.
In any event, the next event is Saturday this week. Saturday, July 13th, Bus Roadeo at the district
shops. Please make a point if you can to get there. That's really a great event. It's a fun family
event.
The finance workshop will not be held on the 16th of July. There will be a GMOC meeting on
the 16th of July, consistent with the discussion that we had for GMOC meetings last week,
allowing people to have an opportunity to review the survey and to do provide further input at
that time. Then on Saturday, August 10 is our Light Rail Rodeo, which will be at the Elati Light
Rail Division. And please recall that Sunday, August 11, is the employee appreciation event at
Elitch Gardens. Any comments, questions relative to those dates and those events?
Hearing none, then the last item that I have under other matters is the CORA request that
Channel 9 submitted to us requesting all Board Director expenses for the last 12 months. I don't
know exactly when the period started or ended. But more or less, it's been the state of this record
for the last 12 months of all Directors, both present and former Directors. Their specific purpose
for that, I don't know. And that information was provided to Channel 9 news yesterday or the day
before. So within the last 48 hours, they were provided with all such information in response to
their CORA request.
In the meanwhile-- or I shouldn't say in the meanwhile. But as part of that process, Director
Menten has made a request that she be provided with all of that information as well. And
Director Menten is here today.

And I thank her for being here. I specifically invited her to be able to come here to speak to this.
Because my initial reaction was I would not independently make a determination on whether that
should be turned over to Director Menten, because I think it's an issue that the Executive
Committee should weigh in on to the extent that it has any feelings about that. There are
obviously pros and cons associated with that. One can argue quite legitimately it is, after all,
public information having been turned over to the Channel 9.
The other question is that the Directors don't always assume that other Directors would be
reviewing their expense reports. And I at least wanted to have a public open forum where that
could be discussed. And then the Executive Committee can determine how to proceed. And I
will suggest-- and then I will stop talking, I will suggest that there are two ways we could
proceed.
One is simply to make those data available to all Directors at the same time. Another is to say,
respectfully, Director, please file a separate independent CORA request. And it will be
responded to timely to provide that information, because not every Director may want to have all
that information.
That's the only reason for this discussion. In no way, shape, or form does it challenge, question,
or in any way seek to subvert the request by Director Menten for the information. But I wanted
to have it discussed in an open forum with the Executive Committee. Having said all of that, let
me now ask Director Menten if she would like to address the issue first. And then we will have
the Executive Committee weigh in.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think that pretty much summarizes it. The original date the Board was
notified about the request from 9NEWS was June 20 at 3:00 PM. I responded at 5:00 PM. I'd like
a copy of what's given to 9NEWS.
And then I was informed that there needed to be discussion, and may or may not need to be a
policy, which frankly, was not pleased with that response. And here we are on now July 11
discussing it. So I think everybody understands the request.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think it's very straightforward. And I don't know that it was meant to
be stated that we might need to establish a policy. But rather that it was the chair's desire that we
have a full discussion with the Executive Committee, so that at least the Executive Committee
wouldn't see the Chair as taking unilateral action on something that some people might consider
to be private, or at least not routinely public information.
All right. That's the background. Comments? And for the sake of the record, and the video
reflects this, Madam First Vice Chair has now joined us in person at the meeting. Comments?
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Tisdale, I joined just as you went into the comments. This is Shelley
Cook.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. The record will reflect that our
Treasurer Shelly Cook joins us by telephone for the meeting at this time. Did you hear at least
most of the general overview of this particular other matter that we're discussing now?
SHELLEY COOK: I did. Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. All right. Comments? All right. Mr. Secretary, your
comments.
JEFF WALKER: I'm wondering if there are any regulations regarding giving a third party
information that was created for a specific second party? Since that second party, in this case
9NEWS paid for that information or paid for the compilation of that information and production
of that in a certain form?
DOUG TISDALE: A good question. Perhaps the Executive Manager has some thoughts to share
on that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So my conversation with Rolf and also with the IGM department was
that their preference would be if it was decided that we were going to release that information,
that Director Menten open up their own CORA request. Because that opens up the door for
anybody to piggyback on any CORA request that has been made.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, but that's-BARBARA MCMANUS: And they feel that's not a good policy.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, that's-- and that was my concern. Somebody puts the effort into research
and ask for specific information that anybody can benefit off of that research that was done by
the requesting party. And if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
JEFF WALKER: So we have that information available to us. I think all of the stuff is sitting out
there in binders that we can access at any time. So my question is, do we need-- is that correct?
And if it is correct, do we even need to submit a CORA to obtain that information?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the practice has been, in the past, if the Director has a specific
question about any other Director's expenses, that they come to us. We pull that expense out.
They look at the expense. They question it either with the chair or whomever.
And then that's it. No large scope of information. A year's worth of expenses, PCard,
transactions, so on and so forth, has ever been released.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Other comments.

PEGGY CATLIN: So you're saying-SHELLEY COOK: And I have a question also if I could-DOUG TISDALE: All right. And Madam Treasurer, let me just ask you to hold on for just a half
a second, because the vice chair was just about to say something. And then I'll go to you next,
OK?
SHELLEY COOK: Excellent. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So the practice has been that you could view those documents, but not
necessarily make copies of them outside of this office. And I'm comfortable with that. But I don't
know if I'm comfortable with, as you said, releasing a whole slew of documents that someone
else paid for and researched.
DOUG TISDALE: May I ask the question of the Vice Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mm-hm
DOUG TISDALE: Would that be subject, however, to the right of such inquiring Director to
submit their own independent CORA request?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Treasurer, you are now recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I'm not completely familiar with how this is done. Are the documents
scanned and are now in electronic format? I'm just wanting to know the nuts and bolts of how we
comply.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, they're all electronic format. What we did was we pulled all of
the expenses for each Director into a specific Director file. And then any of the corresponding
documentation that would have been on PCards, i.e. for travel, where we would pay for the hotel
and the airfare in most cases, we would pull that information from the back end to the PCards
and associate it with each of the expenses that were put in for each Director. There is, from what
I understand, over 300 files for, I think, 19 Directors. And it's enough information that it has to
be on a thumb drive and it can't be emails.
SHELLEY COOK: And I assume the TV station that paid for it has a story, and they're wanting
to protect their right to the bulk of the information. On the one hand, I'm wanting to know if they
had the right to reject the request, or if-- once it's compiled as public information, anyway-- once

it's compiled, is it just, then, a matter of sharing the results of that compilation? This is new
territory for me.
So I kind of think about it as public information. And now that it's been compiled, then maybe it
can be more readily shared. But I just don't know who has a right in this thing. It doesn't seem
like we individually have a right.
That information is public information. But I'm just inquiring about that part of things. Does the
party that requested it have a proprietary role in this not?
DOUG TISDALE: And that's the reason, Madam Treasurer, for the discussion here is just to vet
out these. I'm going to ask Madam Second Vice Chair to weigh in with her thoughts. And then
I'll see if I can try to pull together a consensus here, and then give Director Menten a chance to
speak further based upon these comments. And then we'll see if we can't come up with a
conclusion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I have the same question, Shelley. So once Channel 9
purchased the CORA, they paid for the CORA, is it theirs to utilize it? But then anybody else can
also request the same CORA and pay for that, and then it would be theirs?
BARBARA MCMANUS Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And that process would be the lawful process. OK. So-- all right,
those are my questions. The propriety of who did the CORA, and we can't piggyback on that?
We'd like to know that legally.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Our legal counsel does not like the idea of piggybacking, on setting
that precedent for anyone, including a Director.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah and it's not-- and as I understand it, that legal analysis by our own
General Counsel was not, number one, aimed at Director Menten's request specifically. But
rather, the question of if Fred files a CORA request, does Barney get to say, please give me a
copy of your response to Fred's CORA request? Or does Barney have to file a separate
independent CORA request, which will then be timely responded to in a manner that is required
by law? Which is the sense that I hear from our administrative staff and our legal counsel, and
which also fully responds to and complies with the request for information from any requested
party, be that person a Director, non-Director, or anyone else. All right. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So let me share with you that Boulder has a policy on their website with a
public information portal. That if anybody requests a CORA under most terms, once somebody
has paid for that CORA and the legwork to put it together, they then put it on the portal as, hey,
here's the package already put together. If you would like it, please just send us an email. We'll
be happy to give it to you. I would say that they have a better grasp of transparency, perhaps,
than the average government entity.

So I would like to know when we say piggybacking, we're in no way implying that if somebody
asked for-- say in my case, and I asked for the same document, I have no issue with it being
technically a CORA request. But there is no way that I will be paid for the information. I don't
even think that as a question. I say that as a statement.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, that's been the general rule.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I think that's right. And I want that, because, yes, there could be a
misunderstanding that, well, we charge-- I will make up a number.
I have no basis in fact for this being the number I want on the record. I will make up a number
that says, let's say we charge them $100 for staff time to compile this information. Could have
been much higher, could have been much lower. I don't know.
But let's say we said pay us $100. We do not now say, when we've responded to Fred's request
and Fred paid $100, we say that when Barney submits a separate CORA request, you now owe
us $100. We say instead, well, we happen to have the thumb drive here.
You might have to pay $395 for the thumb drive. But you get the thumb drive. That's my
understanding on it. Executive Manager, please confirm for me that's correct.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes there is no fees involved with Directors.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so based upon those comments, any further observations? Yes, please,
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Barbara, do you happen to know the amount we charged 9NEWS.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I believe that was $180.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Close.
NATALIE MENTEN: And my understanding, I think in the email, was it was a zipped file sent
by email. There was even a thumb drive.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, it was zipped files within the IGM application that transmits to
the asking constituent. They have an application that does that, and tracks it from the time it
comes in.
NATALIE MENTEN: So they are able to get to this zipped file through their email or the portal?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, in the portal.
PEGGY CATLIN: So it wasn't a thumb drive?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we've provided it. We provided it to IGM via a thumb drive.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, not the requester.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And another one went to communications as well, because they'll be
the one who are handling any questions that come in regarding this, along with this office. And
they needed a copy to be able to go in and reference exactly what they were talking about before
they could respond.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So then I have a question regarding just the procedure when we
especially do-- what's the term for it? Just travel, versus local travel-- travel. Since I've never
actually filled out one of those spreadsheets, because I've never spent taxpayer money on that.
And we have these binders out here that are available for us to review, as far as I see it. That if I
would like to look at Director Catlin’s or Chair Tisdale's or my own, I shouldn't have to even go
through a special process. Barbara, I'm going to grab this binder and come sit down and take a
look at it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it's not exactly that easy. Because when you travel and you
submit an expense report, just like you would submit a local expense report, all of the
documentation that you're submitting for that reimbursement is in that binder. Some of the travel
authorization form is there as well.
However, the transactions that are on the PCards are not necessarily all combined in that one
spot. So when we provided them with the information-- because they didn't ask for additional
information, and we only give the information they ask for, we had to go back to every single
PCard for the last year. And extract the documents that corresponded with those travel expense
reports and put that information along with it, so that it looked like a complete trip.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I thought they asked for complete files. But you just-- I seem to
interpret that we only gave them what they asked for, but there was actually more?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, what they asked for were all of the expenses. But the travel
expense report itself doesn't always reflect what the Board offices paid for each of the Directors
that are traveling. So that was the additional information that we had to go and compile one-byone for each of the Directors for each trip over the last year.
DOUG TISDALE: If I can summarize that, it would appear that we could have legitimately
responded to the request by saying, here are the travel expense reports. Rather than just say that,
we also said, and, because they may not be reflected in the travel expense report, here are also
the PCard expenses that were associated with those individual travel items. Is that correct?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Historically, when we haven't done that, it has looked like we've
been trying to hide information. So in us learning, in this office, we went the extra mile, and
made sure that each expense report and all the components of that expense was included in what
they were given.
PEGGY CATLIN: So you gave a comprehensive picture of each event?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, let me ask you we have, in essence, a consensus here, so as to-- let
me try this first. And then I'll come back to you-NATALIE MENTEN: Because I still have one more question.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, but my thought is it sounds as though we may be going toward a
consensus of, absolutely, the information will be available to you if you simply go online and do
the simple expedient of doing a CORA request, saying please provide me the information that
was provided to Channel 9. And then that will be responded to. You'll get that same link to the
portal, and you'll have all of that information in hand in a very timely manner. That seems to be
the consensus. But let me go back to you for a last word, and I'll ask if we have a census.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and then we get a quarterly report-- we just summarize. It's got a
cover letter. It's got a sheet that shows the month of a year.
And it looks like it was generated from a spreadsheet. Perhaps Oracle or something. I don't
know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we manually do them.
NATALIE MENTEN: You manually do those?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is that all the line items that are built into the sheet?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's all the line items that have been processed through Oracle on that
sheet.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. And let me go back to just giving a prep to everybody.
That, while I definitely will be requesting this, then I would also like to look through those
binders and look at previous years.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Some are not on premise. We would have to pull them back.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and that would take a couple of days?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it depends on what you're looking for. I mean, we do have
scanned copies of quite a bit of them. But it does depend on what you're looking for, how we pull
it back.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, because when I watch what the process is-- for an example, I do my
spreadsheet at home and I put in all the items. And there's a formula built into each year's
spreadsheet that staff sometimes will say, well, we want to make sure that nobody messed with
one of the formulas.
So what happens is, all of our hard copy and electronic data is used to input fresh into a
spreadsheet out there in the office. And because, again, I only do local, I would think that the
same thing happens with the travel spreadsheet. And those are all stored somewhere on one of
our internal drives, which somebody could just go and look at that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we print them out so that we can get the proper signatures,
because the Directors signs the one that they submit. And then it gets approved by someone from
the Executive Committee. So that's the second signature. And then at the end of the expense, we
submit those expenses through Oracle, follow it up with the paperwork, then the check is paid.
We put the check advice along with that expense report and have a single copy of everything.
DOUG TISDALE: All right.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, and then I would like to make a motion for this prepping that
I'm going to make a motion after you all decide, which I even hate to cave to that, because I don't
even think there should have to be approval from the Executive Committee, frankly. Its public
records. But go ahead. If you want to get a thumbs up-DOUG TISDALE: That's right. I mean, we're trying to-- I think, doing everything possible,
everything possible, to ensure that we respond to your request fully, completely, transparently,
and timely. I think that's the essence of what this discussion reflects today, for which I am proud.
The question is, do we have consensus that the procedure, as suggested by administration, senior
leadership team, and specifically by general counsel, that the information can and will be made
available to Director Menten, or to anyone who should file an independent CORA request asking
for the information that was provided to Channel 9 News? Is there a consensus amongst the
Executive Committee to that effect?
PEGGY CATLIN: I like the idea of a formal request. Because then it's documented.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, so that's consensus. That's joinder in what I just summarized. Second
Vice Chair indicates assent to that. So does the Secretary. Does the Treasurer indicate assent to
that consensus?
SHELLEY COOK: With the understanding that the cost will be reduced, and there being no
need-- we compile any information, correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, that's what we-- yes that is what we said. That was confirmed, yes.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, yes. And for what it's worth, I think I'd be interested in finding out more
about the Boulder policy. Obviously, you can't just ad hoc do that. But it might be worth looking
at the work that they've done on this particular issue. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Certainly, anyone is welcome to investigate that and to bring back
information in this committee about that. I think that's a great idea.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would like to second that. And Director Cook, I'd like to work
with you on that maybe.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right, so we have consensus as to that point. Executive Manager?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would just like to request that, when Director Menten puts her
request in, that the language is duplicated to what Channel 9 asked for transparency, not just
saying a duplicate of what Channel 9 asked for. Because that way, if someone is reviewing all
the CORAs, they don't know what was asked for in that.
DOUG TISDALE: Good point. And to assist and facilitate Director Menten in that regard, you
can provide her with access the same request that Channel 9 submitted, so that we've covered
that. So that we've dealt with it administratively, but also substantively responded to their
request, OK? All right, any other matters to come before the Board?
You mentioned something about a motion. You can talk to us. You can't make a motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: And you will talk to me-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair? This is Shelley Cook.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. I'm sorry. Treasurer first.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I'm so sorry. I wanted to follow up on a matter that we discussed at the
Executive Committee meeting last month. And it has to do with your-- you had talked about
establishing an Ad Hoc Committee to oversee litigation. And for my part, I'd like for you and the
Vice Chair, and some the members of that committee-- and I just wanted to see if we're still
planning to follow through with that?
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent question. Let me address that first. I would be inclined to have that- if you will, and I suppose it's a subcommittee of the Executive Committee formed, that I have
the authority to form with the First Vice Chair and me providing an oversight role relative to the
litigation. Bearing in mind, by the way, that we are going to have an Executive Session. I believe
we're scheduling for August, wherein General Counsel will provide us a full report on all
pending litigations.

But then in the meanwhile, and particularly responsive to concerns that may have been raised
over attorney's fees and the like, that we will be reviewing that as well. Yes, it is the chairs' intent
to do that. And the First Vice Chair has indicated her willingness to join in that subcommittee for
that purpose.
SHELLEY COOK: And will you be doing that at the Board meeting?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, in terms of providing a report, any such report, we would do in the
context of an Executive Session briefing. Again we're talking about litigation. Litigation would
be done in Executive Session.
SHELLEY COOK: Forgive me for interrupting. I meant the formation of the committee,
accepting-DOUG TISDALE: Oh, yes, no. We can actually announce that. I mean, we don't need to
announce that at the Board meeting. I can simply put together an email to Executive Manager to
share with the rest of the Board advising of that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and so you'll be doing that here shortly? I hate to pin you down on that.
Forgive me, but I just want to make sure we were following up.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am, at or before the July 16 Board meeting, that will be circulated to
the full Board.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks so much.
DOUG TISDALE: You're very welcome. All right, Director Menten, briefly, do you have a
thought to share with us?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, and this continues with the transparency. Director Walker, you in the
past have expressed an interest in putting the Board expenses, published online, I believe.
JEFF WALKER: I don't remember that. But I'm not opposed to it.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
JEFF WALKER: But I just don't remember saying that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, I believe it was during the pleas that I've made for our check register
to be expanded. And during conversation, we'd have to look at what meeting you referenced that.
But it was perhaps last year, to publish the Board expenses on the portal. So I would ask that you
would follow up as an Executive Committee member I'd have to look it up, what he said.
But I know he said it, because he was like, I'll agree with that 100%, that we have already a
CORA portal. And that my request would be to take this as a starter, this information that's

already been compiled, and put it on our existing CORA portal. So that is my request, and I
perhaps will follow up with three signatures from Board Directors to put it on an official agenda.
Secondly, after the discussion earlier in the year with eliminating the $0.25 per page electronic
copy payment that we were charging people, when our own policy said we wouldn't. And really,
the CORA work we did at the state legislature really saying we shouldn't be doing that. And so
that is now our policy. We don't charge for electronic.
But I would like to see a reduction in our hourly charge that we charge the public. Because we
really do pay people to do this work. We're already paying, in my opinion, partly through our
information governance.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so the request is to-- I'm sorry. Your suggestion is you're going to
come forward with a motion. You're going to get signatures and present to the Executive
Committee, and then have presented through the appropriate committee, and then on to the full
Board. Is that correct?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, and as a follow-up to that, Rolf and I have had discussions about-and I believe Barbara may have been tied in this-- on a transparency workshop, which ties in to
showing what Boulder does, showing what some other public agencies are doing that are far
beyond what RTD does, whether it be ridership stats or financial, or a variety of things. And I
have dedicated long years in my life to transparency in government. And I cannot tell you how
much money I've personally spent out my own pocket.
I think I would be of great value from personal experience. I can't tell you how many hours,
truly, that there be some involvement here from people who dedicated their life to it. I would
recommend Jeff Roberts with the Colorado Freedom of Information Coalition. These are experts
in the field.
DOUG TISDALE: And as to that, that doesn't require a motion. I think that's simply a request
that this committee consider that. I think it is an excellent suggestion.
And I would be more than happy to work with you, with Executive Manager, and with other
members of the Executive Committee, in having some kind of transparency workshop presented.
You will recall that we also talked about having scheduled soon a railroading 201 report that was
mentioned in the last report on Tuesday night that we talked about, when talking about fast
tracks and the rest. So I think that's perfectly appropriate and can be considered. Executive
Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I just wanted to add that yes, we have an IGM department. And
Rolf does want to do a workshop with the Directors. And along with Henry with the 201, I'm
working to get some of those dates on the calendar. But as you all know, from now to the end of
the year, we're pretty jam-packed.
I'd also like to add that the initial response went to 9NEWS for seven to nine hours. I believe we
charged them for 11. But we did 16 hours. Now, those last four hours were my hours reviewing

the work that my team did to make sure it was in the order that we had discussed it would be.
That it was organized enough that it would be easy for anybody to follow, and that we didn't
miss anything.
So to say that we already have staffing in the department, I have to tell you that it gets pushed
back to the department that the information comes from. Those folks don't do it. The department
does it. And this team spent a lot of hours on this railway.
DOUG TISDALE: And respectfully, we're borrowing trouble there. The motion has to come up
through the normal channels. And we not going to discuss that motion today.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right.
DOUG TISDALE: It's not made. It's not going to be discussed today. But it absolutely will be
addressed when it comes up, and it absolutely will be briefed out on all sides to handle
appropriate information. But I think we are-- and perhaps the phrase "borrowing trouble" is illadvised.
But I mean to say that we're addressing something that really is not on the agenda. But we know
that we will be in a position to address it in the future when it's presented. And we absolutely
will.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I wanted this committee to know, because I don't get the
opportunity to talk in those sessions.
DOUG TISDALE: No, that is true. But you do in the Executive Committee. That's right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Further other matters to come before the Executive Committee before I ask
General Manager to give us a really brief report, if you may, because we need to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have one.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I want to thank the communications team. Because a couple
of months ago, I approached them about doing a partnership with organizations that work in the
out of doors, and giving them information for people on buses on how to get to the Sand Creek
Regional Greenway or Cherry Creek. So that families and residents, and just folks in general,
could see an RTD bus, where we'd say, hey, if you want to go to the Sand Creek Regional
Greenway for a hike, here's the bus number you take.
And interestingly enough, the very next week, the Denver Post called and said they wanted to do
a story on exactly this thing. And it was published last Saturday. So much positive
reinforcement. I'm getting.

And we met with Pauletta's team on Tuesday with the Sand Creek Regional Greenway talking
about the next steps of maybe doing a marketing plan to really utilize information to our
community members that utilize transit. Or who would, knowing that they could go to these
venues, which is an amazing community support and partnership. So I just wanted to say thank
you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for sharing that. That's very nice. Very nice. All right, anything
else? Yes, Director or the Treasurer
JEFF WALKER: Along the same line-- along the same line, I got a question this past week from
the Denver Architectural Foundation. They put on Doors Open Denver, asking if there is any
possibility for some kind of partnership with that. A couple of their items on the self-guided tour
are Denver Union Station, and there's one other one I can't remember now. But a lot of those
sites are accessible by bus.
So what I spoke with Ms. Tonilas about is maybe creating a map, a bus route map, showing
where those locations are in relation to our bus routes. So that kind of partnership, similar to
what Director Rivera-Malpiede mentioned about Greenway, those kinds of partnerships are
important. I think I've been seeing more. I think I've been seeing more. That's it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Evergreen Parks and Recreation is having their 50th anniversary celebration
this evening. And I am promoting RTD with how to write pamphlets and mobile ticketing
pamphlets. And then we're doing a raffle for some free passes, just to try and promote additional
ridership up there. But I like your idea of making some of these activity centers successful. And
superimposing them on a transit map, I think that's excellent.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me suggest also that these types of reports are very well shared at the full
Board meeting also. So please, just because you've expressed it here, don't forget about it. Feel
free in other matters and the full Board meeting to bring these up. That's exactly what the other
matters item is for, and it really does help. And I think all of us appreciate your-PEGGY CATLIN: Sometimes, it becomes old news, and you forget about it.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Make a note. Make a note. All right, General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Just two very quick things. You covered the scheduled items. I wanted to
mention just for your thoughts, just to let you know about this Executive Committee, no action or
discussion on it, or not today.
But the Medal of Honor Museum group has narrowed down to two cities a possible site for a
Medal of Honor Museum. And so we've met with them once or twice, and they have narrowed it
down to Denver and one other city. I can't remember what it is off the top of my head. But-DOUG TISDALE: Alexandria, Texas, or something such as that. It's a city in Texas.

DAVE GENOVA: But our role in this is they're interested in the gravel parcel of property
adjacent to Civic Center Station. So the museum site is going to be across the street if they select
Denver on a piece of state property that's now a parking lot. But they want to have some kind of
promenade entrance.
So they're interested in leasing-- that's Civic Center. It's that gravel parcel at Civic Center. And
they've indicated to us their idea of a lease is, like, for $1.
Now, we have a team that's working with them. They're trying to talk with them about that. But
we're going to bring it to the full Board at the next Planning and Fast Tracks Committee, I
believe next month. So you just might want to be thinking about that, where they are and where
we are. We'd like to get some value out of that, but also be a good community partner as well.
And then just secondly, I had a really great presentation yesterday with a group called the
Colorado Forum. And this is a group of about 50 CEOs throughout Colorado that work on public
policy both at the state and national level. And Shoshana Lew from CDOT spoke for an hour.
And then I had an hour.
But it was really incredible from the aspect that so many people came up to me afterwards and
said, I have learned so much about RTD. And they're incredibly supportive. And the Executive
Director sent me a note and said, let us know how we can ever help you. We support you.
And so I think it was an opportunity to reach a lot of people that really don't know that much
about really what we do, other than seeing our buses and trains run around. And I'll talk about
that in my GM report at the meeting. So that's it for me, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Perfect. Thank you very much. Any other other matters to come before the
Executive Committee at this time?
If not, we appreciate very much your attention to all these details, and we look forward to
Director Menten's further motion coming forward in the future and the CORA request. And I
think it's helpful that we have had this opportunity for a transparent exchange about
transparency, so that the record reflects that the RTD is committed to that. With that, as of 12:55
PM, on Thursday, July 11, we stand adjourned. Thank you all very much.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

