Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, April 12, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

6:33 PM
6:34 PM
6:33 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Remote
Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:35 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:34 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Absent
Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:30 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

6:35 PM
6:32 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:34 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Directors James and Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Gina
Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Nate Currey,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Nataly Erving, David
Genova, Doug Gragg, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Doug
MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Mac McIntosh, Barbara McManus, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John
Tarbert, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Aaron Foster, Brian Lewandowski, Jill Marcy, Robert McNown, Pedro
Ramos, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Dace West, Monte Whaley

B. Recommended Actions

• Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature
Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”).
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 19, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, explained this action
was just to update General Manager Genova’s title and add
Rolf Asphaug as the Acting General Counsel.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bill James, Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• TIFIA Loan Borrower Authorized Representative Certificate
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Transportation Infrastructure
Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) Borrower Authorized Representative
Certificate (the “Certificate”).

Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 19, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp explained this was to add her, General Manager
Genova, and Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and
Investments, as authorized representatives to discuss issues
around TIFIA loans with the US Department of Transportation.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bill James, Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Adoption of 2017 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors adopts the attached 2017 Performance
Measures for mission statement goals 1-7.
There are 23 specific
performance measures in total, and it is proposed that an additional goal
be added (goal 3.2) for a total of 24.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 19, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis, reminded the Board that staff brings this to them
now because the performance measures are used in
development of the Strategic Budget Plan and 2017
Recommended Budget. She outlined the changes as follows:
 Performance Measure 3.1 – Local On-Time Bus Service be
reduced to 86% from 88% and Reginal On-Time Service to
92% from 94% as a results of more accurate data
collection and a peer review analysis
 Performance Measure 3.2 – Add system-wide service
availability measure for Bus at 97%, which is considered a
realistic measure as availability was 98% in 2013, 97% in
2014, and 96% in 2015



Performance Measure 3.3 – Increase Mileage between Lost
Service Maintenance Road Calls from 28K to 30K miles as
a result of having newer buses in the fleet

She pointed out that performance measures 6.2 and 6.3
would be established though the 2017 Annual Budget process.
She noted that 2016 performance measures may be adjusted
before staff brings the 2016 Amended Budget to the Board for
approval.
Director Francone commented that in addition to decreasing
the on-time performance percentage for measure 3.1, there
was also mention of adding an additional $2 million in
resources to reach that goal. She asked staff for further
information. Heather Copp explained that staff cannot meet
the 2016 goal of 86%/94% on-time performance with current
resources. She stated if the Board wanted to keep the goals
where they are today, staff has determined it would require an
additional $2 million to attain the goals.
Director Francone wondered what the $2 million would
address. Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, said he was going to get into Transit Scheduling
101. He explained that schedules are driven by how long it
takes a bus to make a cycle. If a bus makes one cycle in an
hour, RTD can maintain 60 minute frequency with one bus;
however, as traffic and congestion increase, if the bus now
takes 65 minutes to complete a cycle, a bus must be added to
maintain the frequencies. If a bus is not added and the
schedule not changed, the bus will not be on-time. He stated
the additional funding would be to add buses to routes as
needed to improve on-time performance.
Director Folska wondered what impacts staff foresaw with all
the changes going on this year. She feels this action is
premature as we still have four rail openings this year. Bruce
Abel stated he would not characterize this as premature but
long overdue. He shared that prior to 2011, service monitors
would stand at a corner and observe the buses that went by.
As a result of this methodology there were approximately 240
single-point observations per day. In 2011 the methodology
was changed to a GPS based system. The number of
observations increased to over 18K per day, scattered
throughout the District. He said with nothing changing but the
methodology, on-time performance went from 88-90% to
83%.

Director Folska said she wonders what happened to the
customer satisfaction survey that RTD paid $1.4 million to a
company in Kansas City to perform. Bruce Abel stated that
customer satisfaction survey results are included as part of the
quarterly reports given at the Operations and Customer
Service Committee Meetings. Director Folska stated for $1.4
million she would have expected a formal report, not just
information that seems like it would come from our Customer
Care Division. She said it would make her feel better to see
something formal about the survey.
Director Walker shared that he has been riding the Route 0 for
10-12 years and he thinks it is pretty bold to only drop the ontime performance to 86%. He commented that what was
once a reliable 35 minute bus ride now stretches out to 45
minutes or more. He thinks it is irrelevant that all the lines are
opening as not everyone will take the train. He is in support
of changing the on-time performance measures as if goals are
not attainable they are useless. He hopes the Board will make
the performance measures meaningful.
Director Deadwyler asked how we inform people if buses are
going to be late due to increased travel time. Bruce Abel
indicated these were addressed as part of the routine service
change process that happens three times a year. If a bus can
be added within our financial constraints a bus is added; if not
then the schedule is adjusted.
Director Lubow expressed concern hearing that Director
Walker’s trip now takes 10 minutes longer. She wonders if
that could have been addressed by adding another bus. Bruce
Abel explained that the trip length is not affected by adding
another bus. That would be due to increased traffic, changing
light cycles, etc. He said adding another bus would allow us
to maintain service frequencies as total trip times increase.
Director Lubow worries there is some creeping trouble that is
below the radar.
Director Lubow shared that she is also concerned about
lowering a standard. She believes the deeper question is if it
is important to spend $2 million to get better service;
however, she thinks that if we are not hearing from irate
customers perhaps the additional funding is not really needed.
Bruce Abel shared that from a reliability standpoint, a bus not

showing up is far more important than a bus that is five
minutes late.
Bruce Abel stated that staff is just trying to acknowledge the
reality of the situation. He shared an example of the on-time
performance goal for Utah at 95%. He said the way they
meet this goal is to schedule buses to operate so slowly that
customers call to complain because the operator is sitting on
the side of the road to not be ahead of schedule. He pointed
out there are many ways to achieve on-time performance but
RTD staff balances the goals with the needs of the riders
instead.
Director Anderson believes the Board needs to look at the
numbers. She said she is not willing to spend $2 million for an
increase of just 2% when there are other places the $2 million
can be spent.
Director Francone said she respectfully disagrees with Director
Anderson. She thinks the $2 million is worth it, especially
since we just increased fares. She stated that reliability for
our customers really encourages ridership and keeps it strong.
She does not support lowering the performance measure.
Director Francone asked for an explanation of the 24th
performance measured that Jannette Scarpino referenced as
being added. Jannette Scarpino said that was the addition of
the measurement for system wide service availability for bus.
Director Bagley thinks with all the changes that are happening
this year, now is not the time to throw more service at on-time
performance. He believes the recommendation to look more
realistically at the measurement would be better at this time
and is consistent with staff’s recommendation.
Director Walker acknowledged that he sees more traffic during
his commute now than several years ago. He said the length
of the trip does not affect his satisfaction as he knows it is out
of the drivers control; however, if he is waiting on the corner
expecting a bus at 7:16 and it is not there until 7:26 that is
when he has a problem. He wonders if this will not be quite
as important with the new transit app. He believes keeping
the standards at an unattainable level make the drivers’ jobs
more difficult trying to meet schedules they cannot meet. He
thinks the Board needs to give everyone in this agency a break
and give them a goal they can actually meet.

Chair Tobiassen shared that the reality for him is that he is not
getting complaints from constituents who are unhappy with
on-time performance. If he does hear from a constituent it is
because a particular bus is continually late. He said he if
finding that more and more riders are using the app and not
even using our schedules. He does not think changing the ontime performance number will significantly improve any
perception of on-time performance. Additionally, he noted
that spreading $2 million over the entire system would not be
appreciated by anyone in particular. He stated using real
numbers based on real data makes sense to him.
Director Folska feels that after everything RTD went through
last year with the fare study, the public will see this as RTD
raising fares and then reducing our performance standards.
She asked what will keep staff from coming year after year
and continuing to lower the standard. She stated she cannot
support lowering on-time performance as the rational does not
make sense to her.
Director Deadwyler said her District must be different than
others because she constantly receives complaints that the
buses are not on-time. She is concerned that RTD will
continue to lower goals every year when something is not
working. If we need to add more service to improve on-time
performance then that is what we need to do. She said
people need to make sure they can get from point A to point B
when they think they will get there. Director Deadwyler thinks
that longer travel times are not just from traffic, but also
because there are more riders so it takes longer for them to
board. She shared she hears about drivers who are under
such pressure to meet their goals that they may be short with
customers when they are trying to board. She stated she
cannot support lowering the on-time performance at this time.
Motion to
Amend:

Chair Tobiassen made the motion to amend goal
3.1 to keep the performance measure at 88%
for Local On-Time Bus Service and at 94% for
Regional On-Time Bus Service.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Anderson expressed that it seemed one of the goals
was arbitrarily changed by the Board last year as well. She

believes the Board has all the information before them that this
measure needs to be lowered. Bruce Abel stated last year
staff made the same recommendation for 2016 but ultimately
it was approved at 88%/94% then as well.
Director Anderson asked if anything was really achieved by
leaving the measures the same. She stated the Board can play
with these numbers but it does not make any difference other
than RTD throwing more money at it. Heather Copp reiterated
that staff is just trying to illustrate that if the Board does not
change the on-time performance staff will not make the goal
without additional funding. She said if the Board truly wants
to reach the 88%/94%, the Board will have to fund it. If it is
just symbolic than the Board does not need to do anything;
however, she would think the Board would want to achieve
the goals. Director Anderson asked where the additional $2
million might come from with sales and use tax revenues
going down. Heather Copp stated it would be part of the
2017 budget discussion.
Director Bagley asked if Chair Tobiassen’s motion included
spending an extra $2 million. Chair Tobiassen stated it does
not. It is simply to keep the performance measures as they
are today.
Director Folska noted this was the second quarter of 2016.
She wondered if staff had locked in the diesel fuel prices yet
for 2017. Heather Copp said that conversation would happen
as staff moved through the Strategic Budget Plan and 2017
Recommended Budget. Director Folska stated that might have
resulted in $10 million that RTD could have saved this year, of
which $2 million could have been allocated. Heather Copp
explained that staff did lock in for 2016 in 2015, which was a
savings of around $7.5 million. She shared that staff had not
done the analysis to determine if it made sense to lock in for
2017 yet. It is very premature at this time.
Director Folska inquired if RTD had a vendor for a fuel lock in
2017. General Manager Genova explained that right now RTD
is in the final year of a multi-year contract. A new contract
will need to be executed for 2017 and beyond. He said
requests for proposals are due back May 5 so he anticipates
having a contact shortly.
Director Folska thought it would have been traditional for us to
lock in fuel prices for 2017 in December of last year. She

remembers having that discussion recently. Heather Copp
stated during the last Board Budget Workshop they discussed
that staff would typically lock in fuel prices in the fall; so for
2017 staff would typically lock in during fall of 2016.
Director Folska stated she distinctly recalled having a
conversation about locking in fuel prices in the fall of 2015 for
2016, but our contract did not get renewed with our provider.
Heather Copp thinks there was some confusion as typically for
2016 we would lock in late in 2015; however, last year staff
decided to lock in the summer timeframe around June/July
rather than in the fall. She explained that this year staff was
still determining if it made sense to lock. Director Folska is
very clear that there were different details and requested the
notes from that meeting.
Committee Chair Menten indicated she would be supporting
the amendment. She pointed out that nothing states
achieving the goal requires RTD to spend $2 million, but it is
important to her that the customers have reliability. She
believes that people that do not have a phone need to have
peace of mind as well.
Director Anderson asked for it to be clear that spending an
additional $2 million is not part of the amendment. Chair
Tobiassen stated that was correct. Any additional funding
would be part of the budget conversation at a later date.
Vote on Amendment:
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 5]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Menten, Sisk, Solano,
Walker
NAYS: Anderson, Bagley, Hoy, Lubow, Tobiassen
ABSENT:
Bill James, Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Menten declared the amendment PASSED.

Vote on Motion as Amended:
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Lorraine Anderson
ABSENT:
Bill James, Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED as amended.

C. Updates

• Sales and Use Tax Forecast Update
Doug MacLeod, Controller, reminded the Board that RTD receives forecasts
from CU Leeds School of Business twice per year in March and September.
He said the March forecast is used during the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
and Amended Budget. The September forecast is used for the next year’s
budget. He introduced Robert McNown and Brian Lewandowski from the
CU Leeds School of Business (Leeds). Robert McNown reviewed a Power
Point presentation that is available in the April 12, 2016 Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet.
Robert McNown stressed that there is a lot of uncertainty involved in
forecasting. He shared that the short-term and medium-term forecasts are
affected by employment, real gross domestic product, personal income, and
retail sales and taxable sales; the long-term forecasts focus on changes in
population and age distribution which affect savings, labor supply,
productivity, output, and household expenditures.
Robert McNown noted that the rate of job growth and personal income
increase in Colorado has outpaced the National average; however,
employment growth has peaked and is starting to trend down to a slightly
lower rate. He pointed out that Colorado’s housing market is strong, but
that also means consumers might have less disposable income if they need
to spend more on housing as there have been dramatic increases in price.
Robert McNown reiterated that there is always forecast uncertainty, which
requires CU Leeds to make frequent revisions as new information becomes
available. He pointed to a graph of Moody’s Gross Domestic Product
Expectations from March of 2014 through September of 2016 to illustrate
how much just one component of their forecasts could change in a relatively
short period of time. He explained that the main factors that would impact
the 2016-2017 revenues would be:
 Growing, but slowing, Colorado employment, sales, and personal
income expectations





Exports
Decreasing oil prices
Sales tax remittances from Amazon

Robert McNown stated that the short-term forecasts were strong for 2016
and 2017 but were lower than their September forecasts. Total sales and
use tax increases are projected at 6.38% and 5.64% respectively. He said
that Sales and Use Tax will continue to increase over the long-term but the
rate of increase will begin to slow. This is a reflection of slower growth in
general economic conditions for the nation and state. He shared that in
conducting a comparison with the Colorado Legislative Council and the
Office of State Planning and Budgeting the Leeds forecasts are in line with
these agencies.
Robert McNown reiterated that the integrity of the forecasts is very
important to CU Leeds. This is insured through:
 Forecasts being updated semi-annually to reflect the most current
economic situation
 Forecasts being too high or too low, reflecting uncertainty in the
economy
 Forecasts that are generated from theoretically sound economic
relations, modeled with state-of-the-art methods of modern
econometric time series analyses
 Forecasts do not incorporate “add factors” or other subjective
adjustments of model forecasts
 Leeds being independent from RTD with no political or financial stake
in the forecast numbers
Director Anderson expressed her concerns around online shopping and
Colorado’s inability to find a way to capture sales tax on online purchases.
She noted that Colorado is now getting tax from Amazon but that is only at
the state level. Heather Copp explained that currently Amazon has
volunteered to charge state income tax for online sales. She said the only
way RTD would have the ability to collect tax would be if Amazon open a
distribution center or store within the District. Director Anderson stated she
believes there will be more and more online sales that will lead to RTD’s
revenues decreasing.
Director Anderson shared that since she has been on the Board she has been
disturbed that RTD has been overly optimistic with regards to projections
and budgets. She said her preference would be for staff to not use anything
but the low forecast provided by Leeds because it is more conservative.
She would rather have money left over than have to scramble to make up
for it. Robert McNown shared those were conversations his team was

having with staff. Heather Copp pointed out that today our sales and use
tax would fall somewhere between the low and mid forecast.
Director Folska echoed Director Anderson’s concern. She believes erring on
the side of conservativism is good. She said she is always confused about
the unemployment numbers. It is interesting to her that we have such low
unemployment but homelessness seems to be going up. Robert McNown
explained that one source of disconnect between robust employment growth
and the evidence of homelessness is the very slow wage growth. He said
this goes hand in hand with increased inequality. The mean wages will be
biased upward by extremely high incomes in the top percentiles.
Director Bagley reminded the Board in 2011 RTD started the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force and hired Leeds as a result. He thinks that was a
fantastic move on the part of RTD. He said in looking at the slide that
graphs the forecast uncertainty, it appears to him the first quarter of every
year is low. He asked if it was correct to assume this is probably due to
higher consumer spending during the holiday season. Robert McNown
stated that was exactly what was going on. He shared you would see the
same pattern going back much further than 2014.
Director Lubow believes an analysis of income inequality would be useful for
Leeds to include because it answers some of those troubling problems seen
when the economy is robust but there are still many social ills. She thinks it
is risky not to address as if there is more inequality there is less stability in
the economy. Robert McNown said that was something they could
consider. He commented getting income distributions at the state level is
difficult but perhaps there are other indicators that might be useful.

• Smart Media Technology (SMT) Status Update
Heather Copp indicated the report was included in the April 12, 2016
Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. She shared
the good news is that participants have increased from last month up to
1,240. She stated none of the statuses have changed on the program
components. She shared that staff has opened the lines of communication
with King Soopers so they are hopeful the pilot program can be up and
running rather swiftly.
There were no questions from Directors.

• Review of 2017-2022 SBP Development Process and 2017 Budget
Assumptions
Committee Chair Menten indicated that due to the late hour, this discussion
would be deferred to the Study Session on April 26, 2016 along with the
tactical plans at the request of staff. Heather Copp asked if Directors had

any feedback between now and the Study Session staff would love to
receive it.
Director Bagley asked when the next Board Budget workshop was
scheduled. Heather Copp stated it would be in the afternoon before the
Study Session.

• February 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod indicated the report was included in the April 12, 2016
Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. He pointed
out that sales and use tax, ridership, and fare revenue are all under budget
year-to-date. He stated that for fare revenue we are $2.4 million under
budget and sales and use tax is $2.6 million, which equals a $5 million
shortfall. He said if staff was to annualize those numbers they think we
might end up from $23 to $34 million short on revenues. He explained that
staff would be taking this into consideration as we begin the amended
budget process.
Director Bagley stated this was all the more reason not to add $2 million to
the budget for meeting the on-time performance measure.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone advised the Board that there would be a General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee Meeting on April 19 at 3:30
p.m. She said the Committee should expect to hit the ground running. Director
Bagley asked what topics would be discussed. He specifically wondered if there
would be a discussion of the task goals. Director Francone shared that the
committee would review the process and draft timeline for when tasks needed to
be completed, as well as a few housekeeping items. She said the task goals may
be discussed in broad terms but she was not anticipating a thorough discussion.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 24, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:28 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

