Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
July 20, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
I.

Call to Order

II.

July Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - July 25, 2017
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Special Recognition – 2017 APTA International Rail Rodeo
Rail Rodeo Operator Team Competition (RTD – 16th Place)
Robert Dennis
Derrick Shaw, Jr.
Maintenance Team Competition (RTD – 8th Place)
Randall Lovegrove
George Sweeney

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 27, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Construction Award for IFB 37-DH 001. Customer Care Call Center and
Treasury Repair Facility.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a
contract to AD Miller Services in the amount not-to-exceed of $5,627,730 for the
New Customer Care Call Center and Treasury Repair Facility project. Funding for
this contract is included in the 2017 Amended Budget. It is further recommended
that the General Manager or his designee be authorized to issue contract
amendments in the total amount not-to-exceed the remaining approved project
budget of $845,393 as needed.
B.
Enter into a Contract with RouteMatch for MDT and On-Board Software for
Access-a-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract for computerized Mobile Data Terminals
(MDTs) and onboard software with RouteMatch Software, Inc. (RouteMatch)
(Contract Number 17DH025) for an amount not to exceed $1,800,000. The
price includes MDTs, software, implementation and three years of extended
support.
C.
Enter into a Contract with INIT for Automatic Passenger Counters for Light
Rail Vehicles
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all

documents necessary to award a contract for purchase, installation and
maintenance of Automatic Passenger Counters (APCs) with INIT Innovations in
Transportation, Inc. (INIT) (Contract Number 17DH026) for an amount not to
exceed $2,400,000 and transfer up to $950,000 from project 10444 (Mobile Data
Terminals) to project 10345 (New Automatic Passenger Counter).
D.

Resolution to Approve Refinancing for Interest Savings

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement
and related documents in connection with the partial refinancing of the 2010A and
2015A Certificates of Participation.
E.

Approval of General Manager's 2018 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee that the Board of Directors approves the General
Manager’s goals for 2018 as defined in the attached General Manager’s
Performance Evaluation document.
XII.

Recommended Action

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: July 6, 2017

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

July 6, 2017

Subject:

Construction Award for IFB 37-DH 001.
Customer Care Call Center and Treasury Repair
Facility.

General

Board Meeting Date: July 25, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to AD Miller Services in the amount
not-to-exceed of $5,627,730 for the New Customer Care Call Center and Treasury Repair Facility
project. Funding for this contract is included in the 2017 Amended Budget. It is further recommended
that the General Manager or his designee be authorized to issue contract amendments in the total
amount not-to-exceed the remaining approved project budget of $845,393 as needed.
BACKGROUND
The Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) operating facility at 711 W. 31st Avenue in Denver was
acquired by FasTracks in 2010 for the construction of the Electrified Segment of Northwest Rail. A
section of the building was in the path of the commuter rail flyover bridge for the corridor. The building
originally had four bays and an additional office/crew rooms section. The eastern bay was removed
along with the offices/crew rooms to accommodate the flyover. The building was originally built in the
1940’s by the Rocky Mountain Motor Company which maintained and stored buses. After that, it was
acquired by the BNSF and used as an operating facility and repair shop.
With the growing demand for space across RTD’s operating facilities, a facilities space planning study
was conducted. Based on location, size, and access to the DUS Transit Hub, it was recommended to
relocated the Customer Care Call Center and the Treasury facility to this location. Both groups needed
additional space for their operations. Also, this freed up additional space for the Bus Operations Group at
District Shops.
Additional requirements/space for the Customer Care Division, Treasury Division and Bus Operations has
been a direct impact from RTD’s FasTracks expansion.
DISCUSSION
The three bays total approximately 45,000 square feet. Customer Care will take the eastern most bay.
Their space will be made up of offices and the telephone information call center. This will allow for
current space requirements and future expansion. The Treasury will be in the center bay. Their space will
include offices, equipment repair workstations, small parts inventory storage, secure revenue equipment
storage, and a truck loading area. The remaining west bay of the building will be minimally upgraded for
code compliance. This bay is currently programmed to house maintenance and storage operations.
The IFB was advertised on April 11, 2017. Bids were received and opened on June 28, 2017. Three
bidders proposed in the following manner.
1. AD Miller Services

$5,627,730

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

2. Mark Young Construction
3. Ford Construction Company

$5,654,578
$5,671,567

SBE/DBE INVOLVEMENT
There was a 12% SBE goal set for this project. The contractor is proposing to exceed the goal to 25%.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this contract is included in the 2017 Amended Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a
contract to AD Miller Services in the amount not-to-exceed of $5,627,730 for the New Customer
Care Call Center and Treasury Repair Facility project. Funding for this contract is included in the
2017 Amended Budget. It is further recommended that the General Manager or his designee be
authorized to issue contract amendments in the total amount not-to-exceed the remaining approved
project budget of $845,393.
2. Do not Accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to
award a contract to AD Miller Services in the amount not-to-exceed of $5,627,730 for the New
Customer Care Call Center and Treasury Repair Facility project. Re-advertise the project at a later
date. Re-advertising could gain additional competition, but could also lose competition or have no
bidders.

Prepared by:
Richard Rost, Manager, Facilities Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: July 13, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

July 12, 2017

Board Meeting Date: July 25, 2017

Subject:

Enter into a Contract with RouteMatch for
MDT and On-Board Software for Access-a-Ride

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
for computerized Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) and onboard software with RouteMatch Software, Inc.
(RouteMatch) (Contract Number 17DH025) for an amount not to exceed $1,800,000. The price
includes MDTs, software, implementation and three years of extended support.
BACKGROUND
RTD’s Access-a-Ride paratransit service provides transportation in the Denver metro area for people
whose disabilities prevent them from using lift-equipped fixed-route bus service. Access-a-Ride service
uses vehicles equipped with RouteMatch software and iPilot 8000 computerized Mobile Data Terminals
(MDTs) and associated onboard equipment that enables dispatching and communications via the
RouteMatch paratransit scheduling and central dispatch software (‘RouteMatch central software’). The
current MDTs entered service in 2009 and reached end of useful life several years ago. The current
MDT’s have very high failure rates and are hard to procure. Consequently, it is imperative that the MDTs
be replaced with modern equipment in order to provide Access-a-Ride drivers with the necessary tools to
provide this important service.
DISCUSSION
RTD currently utilizes paratransit scheduling software produced by “RouteMatch.” It is necessary that
the on-board software loaded on the MDT’s integrate with the backend RouteMatch software in order to
allow Access-a-ride drivers to receive accurate information to perform their duties. Onboard software
that integrates with the RouteMatch central software is already developed.
RTD conducted an evaluation of the various options to replace the existing Access-a-Ride Mobile Data
Terminals. The option with the quickest deployment, least risk and lowest cost is to have RouteMatch
deploy new modern versions of the computerized MDTs with onboard software. Requiring RouteMatch
to provide the updated hardware and software, perform the integration and thus provide the complete
solution to modernize the Access-a-Ride MDT’s will speed the process by providing fewer procurements
and result in a single point of contact for RTD to have one vendor responsible for all of the functionality
associated with the upgrade of the Access-a-Ride MDT’s.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this project is included in the adopted RTD budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with RouteMatch to provide
computerized MDTs and onboard software. This is the recommended alternative.

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.B

2. Continue to t r y t o provide remedial repairs to extend the system life. This is not a sustainable
option and does not provide the upgrades necessary for Access-a-Ride drivers to perform their duties.
This is not recommended.
3. Proceed with an entirely new procurement for a new paratransit scheduling software package and
integrated MDT’s. This would take well over a year to procure and deploy the chosen system and is
not budgeted. This is not recommended.
Prepared by: Eric Farrington

Prepared by:
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: July 13, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

July 12, 2017

Board Meeting Date: July 25, 2017

Subject:

Enter into a Contract with INIT for Automatic
Passenger Counters for Light Rail Vehicles

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
for purchase, installation and maintenance of Automatic Passenger Counters (APCs) with INIT
Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) (Contract Number 17DH026) for an amount not to exceed
$2,400,000 and transfer up to $950,000 from project 10444 (Mobile Data Terminals) to project 10345
(New Automatic Passenger Counter).
BACKGROUND
RTD uses APC’s on light rail vehicles to monitor on-time performance and to gather ridership
information. The data collected by the APCs is ingested into the INIT Computer Aided Dispatch/
Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) system for compilation, presentation, and analysis of ridership
numbers and on-time performance calculations. This data is key for required federal reporting,
operational considerations and planning. Currently, only 42 of the 201 vehicle LRV fleet (24%) are
equipped with APC’s making it very difficult to provide statistically valid information.
DISCUSSION
RTD recently purchased hardware for the Access-a-Ride Mobile Data Terminal (MDT) Replacement
project. Staff subsequently determined that the equipment could be better utilized on the LRV fleet to
expand the number of APC equipped light rail cars to help with passenger count and on-time
performance measurement. A less expensive alternative for the Access-a-Ride MDT Replacement Project
has been identified and pursued, freeing up some funds that can be transferred to purchase additional
APCs for light rail.
RTD currently has an authorized and budgeted project (Project 10345 -New Auto Passenger Counters) to
begin to upgrade and expand the number of APC’s on the LRV fleet. Utilizing some of the hardware that
had already been purchased for the Access-a-Ride MDT project and transferring the remaining funds
from the MDT project will allow RTD to expand the scope of the currently budgeted LRV APC project
and further increase the number of Light Rail Vehicles that can be equipped with new APC equipment.
By using some of this equipment and transferring these additional funds, the APC coverage on the LRV
fleet can be increased to over 70%. This will allow for easier and more timely compilation of
statistically valid data for monitoring on-time performance and for gathering ridership data for internal
and external reporting. This equipment will be upgraded for both reliability and for security of data
transmissions over Wi-Fi. This will be a sole source contract to INIT in order to expand the number of
APC equipped light rail vehicles with technology similar to and compatible with the technology that is
utilized on the existing LRV fleet.

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.C

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this project (Project 10345- New Automatic Passenger Counters) is included in the adopted RTD
budget. The transfer of up to $950,000 from project 10444- Mobile Data Terminals, also included in the
adopted RTD budget, to project 10345 will fund the requested expansion of this effort.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract for purchase, installation and maintenance of Automatic Passenger Counters (APCs) with INIT
Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) (Contract Number 17DH026) for an amount not to exceed
$2,400,000 and transfer up to $950,000 from project 10444 (Mobile Data Terminals) to project 10345
(New Automatic Passenger Counter). This is the recommended alternative.
2. Continue to try to utilize existing resources and provide minimal expansion and upgrade to the
existing APC’s. This does not leverage the existing hardware purchase and minimizes improvements in
data collection and service monitoring and is not the recommended alternative.

Prepared by:
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

July 13, 2017

Subject:

Resolution to Approve Refinancing for Interest
Savings

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: July 13, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: July 25, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the execution and delivery by
the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and related documents in connection with the partial refinancing
of the 2010A and 2015A Certificates of Participation.
In 2010, RTD issued its Series 2010A certificates of participation (COPs) to finance 55 new Siemens
light rail vehicles, 95 access-a-Ride vehicles, 32 Call-n-Ride vehicles, fare boxes and CAD/AVL
equipment. The 2010A COPs also refinanced the 1998A and 2001A COPs for interest expense savings.
The 2010A COPs were originally issued in the amount of $312, 900,000. The COPs are callable at par
on November 1, 2020 and final payment is scheduled to occur in 2040 and the interest rate being paid
ranges from 5.0% - 5.5%.
In 2015, RTD issued its Series 2015A certificates of participation (COPs) to finance 29 new Siemens
light rail vehicles, 179 40’ transit buses, 18 60’ articulated buses, and 7 mall shuttle buses. The 2015A
COPs were originally issued in the amount of $193,915,000. The COPs are partially ($65,000,000)
callable at par on June 1, 2020 and partially ($258,915,000) callable at par on June 1, 2025. Final
payment is scheduled to occur in 2040 and the interest rate being paid ranges from 3.25% - 5.0%.
The approaching call dates and current low interest rate environment have created an opportunity to
refinance portions of the 2010A and 2015A COPs to realize a reduction in interest expense while
keeping the 2020 call date.
DISCUSSION:
RTD has the potential to advance-refund a portion of remaining outstanding Series 2010A and 2015A
COPs to realize, subject to market movement, a savings of approximately $13.6 million (4.35% of
principal of refunded COPs) between 2018 and 2025. RTD Board Policy and the Resolution require a
minimum of 3% savings which allows some flexibility in regards to changes in interest rates between
now and the date the new interest rate is locked.
While the potential refunding savings are significant, it is important to note that such savings are net of
a cost resulting from (a) the inability to invest proceeds of the new financing at a return equal to the
interest expense of the new financing, and (b) the length of time between the execution of the new
financing and the November 1, 2020 and June 1, 2020 call dates of the 2010A and 2015A COPs

Packet Pg. 10

2.11.D

(negative arbitrage). Absent a change in interest rates, the savings to RTD improves with the passage
of time, due to a reduction in time proceeds of the new financing must be invested prior to redeeming
the 2010A and 2015A COPs. Despite the cost associated with the negative arbitrage, the potential
savings from a refunding of the 2010A and 2015A COPs exceeds the typical threshold for a refunding
by RTD. Consequently, staff has assembled a financing team and commenced documentation to be in a
position to take advantage of the opportunity for RTD to reduce its interest expense.
RTD typically uses COPs to finance vehicles when the budget cannot accommodate the use of cash to
acquire the necessary vehicles, as was the case in 2010 and 2015. In this case, staff received an
attractive proposal from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. who is in the pre-selected investment bank pool for
the use of lease financing to refinance the Series 2010A and 2015A Certificates of Participation. As a
response to this proposal, staff engaged RTD’s financial advisor to determine if the proposal was a
better value to RTD than issuing certificates of participation. It was determined that the JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. proposal offered the most value to RTD.
Benefits of the JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. proposal include interest rates competitive with a COP
refinancing of the 2010A and 2015A COPs, the ability to keep the call option for RTD in 2020 as is
currently the case with the 2015A COPs and the ability to avoid the cost of obtaining credit ratings.
The Board is being requested through the Resolution to authorize the partial refinancing of the Series
2010A and 2015A COPs through an annually appropriated capital lease through JP Morgan Chase Bank
N.A.
Drafts of documents including the Lease Purchase Agreement, Escrow Agreement, Purchase and
Assignment Agreement are available for review in the Board Office.
RTD is receiving the advice of First Southwest Company as independent financial advisors and Butler
Snow LLP as Bond Counsel, in regard to the transaction. The lender in this transaction will be JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Costs associated with the refunding are considered “costs of issuance” and will be funded out of
proceeds. These costs include financial advisory, attorney and miscellaneous costs. The final payment
year of the new financing will not exceed 2025, the final payment year of the existing Series 2010A and
2015A COPs that are being refinanced.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of 2017,
authorizing the execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and related
documents in connection with the refinancing of the 2010A and 2015A certificates of
participation. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not authorize the execution of documents; including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of
2017 authorizing the execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and
related documents in connection with the refinancing of the 2010A and 2015A certificates of
participation. This is not the recommended action as it would not take advantage of the interest
expense savings currently available to the district.

Packet Pg. 11

2.11.D

ATTACHMENTS:


Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5

(DOC)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 12

RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2017
AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY BY THE
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT OF A LEASE
PURCHASE AGREEMENT AND RELATED DOCUMENTS IN
CONNECTION WITH THE PARTIAL REFINANCING OF THE
2010 PROJECT AND THE 2015A PROJECT.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District in the City and County of
Broomfield, the City and County of Denver and the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of Colorado (the “District”) was created by the General
Assembly of the State of Colorado in 1969 by Chapter 231, Laws of Colorado 1969, which is
currently codified as Sections 32-9-101 through 32-9-164, inclusive, of the Colorado Revised
Statutes (the “Act”) and the District’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) and officers from time to
time, including the present incumbents, have been duly chosen and qualified; and
WHEREAS, the District is authorized by the Act to develop, maintain and operate
a mass transportation system and in connection therewith to purchase or otherwise acquire real
and personal property; and
WHEREAS, the District has previously entered into an annually renewable Lease
Purchase Agreement dated as of December 1, 2010 (the “2010 Lease”), between the District and
RTD Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc., now known as Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. (the
“Corporation”) pursuant to which the District has leased from the Corporation certain leased
property consisting of certain Fareboxes and certain Radio Communication System and
Computer Aided Dispatching and Vehicle Locator Systems (the “2010 Equipment”), certain light
rail vehicles and certain real property (collectively, the “2010 Leased Property”); and
WHEREAS, in connection with the leasing of the 2010 Leased Property, the
Corporation and UMB Bank, N.A., as Trustee (the “2010 Trustee”), have entered into a
Mortgage and Indenture of Trust dated as of December 1, 2010 (the “2010 Indenture”) pursuant
to which there were executed and delivered certain Tax-Exempt Certificates of Participation,
Series 2010A (the “2010A Certificates”) and Taxable Certificates of Participation (Direct Pay
Build America Bonds), Series 2010B, relating to the 2010 Leased Property; and
WHEREAS, the District has previously entered into an annually renewable Lease
Purchase Agreement dated as of August 20, 2015 (the “2015 Lease”), between the District and
the Corporation pursuant to which the District has leased from the Corporation certain leased
property consisting of certain buses and light rail vehicles (collectively, the “2015 Leased
Property”); and
WHEREAS, in connection with the leasing of the 2015 Leased Property, the
Corporation and UMB Bank, N.A., as Trustee (the “2015 Trustee”), have entered into a
Mortgage and Indenture of Trust dated as of August 20, 2015 (the “2015 Indenture”) pursuant to
which there were executed and delivered certain Certificates of Participation, Series 2015 (the
“2015A Certificates”) relating to the 2015 Leased Property; and

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the District has determined and hereby
determines that it is in the best interest of the District to refinance a portion of the 2010 Leased
Property by refunding a portion of the outstanding 2010A Certificates and to refinance a portion
of the 2015 Leased Property by refunding a portion of the outstanding 2015A Certificates
(collectively, the “Refunding Project”); and
WHEREAS, in connection with the Refunding Project, portions of the 2010
Leased Property and portions of the 2015 Leased Property will be released from the provisions
of the 2010 Lease and the 2015 Lease, respectively, in accordance with the provisions thereof;
and
WHEREAS, any 2010 Equipment that is released from the provisions of the 2010
Lease in connection with the Refunding Project will be conveyed by the Corporation to the
District; and
WHEREAS, in order to effectuate the Refunding Project, the Board has
determined and hereby determines that it is in the best interests of the District and its inhabitants
that the Board authorize the District to enter into an annually renewable Lease Purchase
Agreement with the Corporation (the “Lease”) pursuant to which the District will lease from the
Corporation certain property, as further set forth in Exhibit A to the Lease (collectively, the
“2017A Leased Property”), including: (a) a portion of the light rail vehicles that comprised the
2010 Leased Property and that will be released from the provisions of the 2010 Lease in
connection with the Refunding Project, (b) a portion of the buses and light rail vehicles that
comprised a portion of the 2015 Leased Property and that will be released from the provisions of
the 2015 Lease in connection with the Refunding Project, and (c) certain additional light rail
vehicles that are currently owned by the District (the “Additional Light Rail Vehicles”) and
certain additional buses that are currently owned by the District (the “Additional Buses”) that
will be conveyed by the District to the Corporation and leased back to the District pursuant to the
Lease; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined and hereby determines that it is in the best
interest of the District and its inhabitants that, in order to effectuate the Refunding Project, the
Board authorize the District to sell the Additional Light Rail Vehicles and the Additional Buses
to the Corporation and then lease back the Additional Light Rail Vehicles and the Additional
Buses as part of the 2017A Leased Property under the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the money to be received in connection with the execution and
delivery of the Lease, and the sale of the Additional Light Rail Vehicles and the Additional
Buses to the Corporation, shall be applied, together with other available moneys of the District,
to finance the Refunding Project and pay the costs of execution and delivery of the Lease and
related documents; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Lease, and subject to the right of the District to not
renew the Lease and other limitations as therein provided, the District will pay certain Base
Rentals and Additional Rentals (as such terms are defined in the Lease) in consideration for the
right of the District to use the 2017A Leased Property; and

2
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

WHEREAS, the District’s obligation under the Lease to pay Base Rentals and
Additional Rentals shall be from year to year only, shall constitute currently appropriated
expenditures of the District, and shall not constitute a general obligation or other indebtedness of
the District or multiple fiscal year direct or indirect debt or other financial obligation of the
District whatsoever or a mandatory charge or requirement against the District in any Fiscal Year
(as defined in the Lease) beyond the then current Fiscal Year; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the execution and delivery of the Lease and the
financing of the Refunding Project, the Corporation will enter into a Purchase and Assignment
Agreement (the “Assignment Agreement”), with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the “Registered
Owner”), pursuant to which the Registered Owner will pay the Purchase Price (as defined
therein) to the Corporation, and the Corporation will assign (with certain exceptions) all of its
rights, title and interest in, to and under the Lease to the Registered Owner; and
WHEREAS, the net proceeds received from the payment of the Purchase Price
and the proceeds from the sale of the Additional Light Rail Vehicles and the Additional Buses to
the Corporation will be deposited in an escrow account pursuant to the Escrow Agreement (as
hereinafter defined) to effectuate the Refunding Project; and
WHEREAS, the Assignment Agreement shall evidence the right of the Registered
Owner under the Assignment Agreement to receive Lease Revenues (as defined in the Lease),
shall be payable solely from the sources provided in the Lease, and shall not constitute a general
obligation or other indebtedness of the District or multiple fiscal year direct or indirect debt or
other financial obligation whatsoever or a mandatory payment obligation of the District in any
Fiscal Year beyond the then current Fiscal Year and shall not directly or indirectly obligate the
District to make any payments beyond those appropriated for any Fiscal Year during which the
Lease shall be in effect; and
WHEREAS, there has been presented to the Board and are on file at the District
offices the following: (i) the proposed form of the Lease; (ii) the proposed form of the
Assignment Agreement; and (iii) the proposed form of the Escrow Agreement (the “Escrow
Agreement”) between the Corporation and UMB Bank, N.A., as escrow agent, relating to the
Refunding Project; and
WHEREAS, Section 11-57-204 of the Supplemental Public Securities Act,
constituting Title 11, Article 57, Part 2, Colorado Revised Statutes (the “Supplemental Act”),
provides that a public entity, including the District, may elect in an act of issuance to apply all or
any of the provisions of the Supplemental Act; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, happen and
be performed precedent to and in connection with the authorization of the Lease exist, have
happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and manner as required by law,
it is appropriate for the Board to adopt this Resolution at this time.

3
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
BROOMFIELD, THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER AND THE COUNTIES OF
ADAMS, ARAPAHOE, BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND WELD, IN THE STATE
OF COLORADO AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
Ratification and Approval of Prior Actions. All action heretofore
taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this Resolution) by the Board or the officers,
employees or agents of the Board or the District relating to the refinancing of the 2010A Project
and the 2015A Project and effectuating the Refunding Project, including the selection of the
Registered Owner, and the execution and delivery of the Lease and related documents is hereby
ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 2.
Finding of Best Interests; Approval. The Board hereby finds and
determines, pursuant to the Constitution, the laws of the State of Colorado and the Act, that
refinancing a portion of the 2010A Project and a portion of the 2015A Project by effectuating the
Refunding Project, including paying the costs of issuance in connection therewith, under the
terms and provisions set forth in the Lease, the Assignment Agreement and the Escrow
Agreement and in accordance with the parameters set forth in this Resolution and in the Sale
Certificate (hereinafter defined), is necessary, convenient and in furtherance of the District’s
purposes and is in the best interests of the inhabitants of the District and the Board hereby
authorizes and approves the same.
To effectuate the Refunding Project, the Board hereby further authorizes and
approves the sale of the Additional Light Rail Vehicles and the Additional Buses to the
Corporation at a price equal to the fair market value thereof (as determined by the General
Manager or the Chief Financial Officer), and the leasing back of the Additional Light Rail
Vehicles and the Additional Buses by the District pursuant to the Lease. The number of
Additional Light Rail Vehicles and/or Additional Buses that shall be sold by the District to the
Corporation and that shall comprise a portion of the 2017A Leased Property shall be determined
by the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer and shall be set forth in the Sale
Certificate. The Board hereby directs that the net proceeds of such sale of the Additional Light
Rail Vehicles and Additional Buses be applied to financing a portion of the costs of the
Refunding Project.
Section 3.
Supplemental Act; Parameters. The Board hereby elects to apply
all of the Supplemental Act to the Lease and in connection therewith delegates to each of the
General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer the independent authority to make any
determination delegable pursuant to Section 11-57-205(1)(a-i), Colorado Revised Statutes, to
make determinations in relation to the Lease, and to execute a sale certificate for the Lease (the
“Sale Certificate”) setting forth such determinations, without any requirement that the Board
approve such determinations, including without limitation, the term of the Lease, the rental
amounts to be paid by the District pursuant to the Lease, and the 2010A Certificates and the
2015A Certificates to be refunded as part of the Refunding Project, subject to the following
parameters and restrictions:

4
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

(a)
the aggregate principal amount of the Base Rentals payable by the District
pursuant to the Lease shall not exceed $161,000,000;
(b)
the maximum annual amount of Base Rentals payable by the District
pursuant to the Lease in any Fiscal Year shall not exceed $37,000,000;
(c)
the maximum total amount of Base Rentals payable by the District
pursuant to the Lease shall not exceed $190,000,000;
(d)

the Lease Term for the Lease shall not extend beyond June 1, 2025; and

(e)
the present value savings related to the Refunding Project shall not be less
than 3.00% of the principal amount of the 2010A Certificates and the 2015A Certificates being
refunded.
The delegation set forth in this Section 3 shall be effective for one year following
the date hereof.
Section 4.
Approval of Lease. The Lease in substantially the form thereof
presented to the Board and filed with the Board Secretary (the “Secretary”), is in all respects
approved, authorized and confirmed, but such document may be completed, corrected or revised
as deemed necessary by the parties thereto in order to carry out the purposes of this Resolution
and as the General Manager or Chief Financial Officer shall approve, the execution thereof being
deemed conclusive approval of any such changes by the District. The Chair of the Board (the
“Chair”) is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease on behalf of the
District.
Section 5.
Authorization to Execute Collateral Documents. The Secretary (or
such other person authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary) is hereby authorized and directed
to attest all signatures and acts of any official of the District in connection with the matters
authorized by this Resolution and to place the seal of the District on any document authorized
and approved by this Resolution. The Chair, the Secretary, the General Manager, the Chief
Financial Officer and other employees and officials of the District are hereby authorized and
directed to execute and deliver for and on behalf of the District any and all additional certificates,
documents and other papers, and to perform all other acts that they may deem necessary or
appropriate in order to implement and carry out the transactions and other matters authorized by
this Resolution. The approval hereby given to the various documents referred to above includes
an approval of such additional details therein as may be necessary and appropriate for their
completion, deletions therefrom and additions thereto as may be approved by the General
Manager or the Chief Financial Officer prior to the execution of the documents. The execution
of any instrument by the appropriate officers of the District herein authorized shall be conclusive
evidence of the approval by the District of such instrument in accordance with the terms hereof.
Without further Board approval, the General Manager or the Chief Financial
Officer shall have the authority to authorize revisions or amendments to the Lease relating to (a)
the vehicles, equipment and other property that will comprise the 2017A Leased Property under
the Lease, and (b) the amortization and release schedule, if any, set forth in the Lease.
5
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

Section 6.
No General Obligation Debt. No provision of this Resolution, the
Lease or the Assignment Agreement shall be construed as creating or constituting a general
obligation or other indebtedness or multiple fiscal year financial obligation of the District within
the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provision, nor a mandatory charge or requirement
against the District in any ensuing fiscal year beyond the then current fiscal year. The District
shall have no obligation to make any payment with respect to the Assignment Agreement except
in connection with the payment of the Base Rentals (as defined in the Lease) and certain other
payments under the Lease, which payments may be terminated by the District in accordance with
the provisions of the Lease. Neither the Lease nor the Assignment Agreement shall constitute a
mandatory charge or requirement of the District in any ensuing fiscal year beyond the then
current fiscal year or constitute or give rise to a general obligation or other indebtedness or
multiple fiscal year financial obligation of the District within the meaning of any constitutional
or statutory debt limitation and shall not constitute a multiple fiscal year direct or indirect
District debt or other financial obligation whatsoever. No provision of the Lease or the
Assignment Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as creating an unlawful delegation of
governmental powers nor as a donation by or a lending of the credit of the District within the
meaning of Sections 1 or 2 of Article XI of the Colorado Constitution. Neither the Lease nor the
Assignment Agreement shall directly or indirectly obligate the District to make any payments
beyond those budgeted and appropriated for the District’s then current fiscal year.
Section 7.
Reasonableness of Rentals. The Board hereby determines and
declares that the Base Rentals due under the Lease, in the maximum amounts authorized
pursuant to Section 3 hereof, constitute the fair rental value of the 2017A Leased Property and do
not exceed a reasonable amount so as to place the District under an economic compulsion to
renew the Lease or to exercise its option to purchase the 2017A Leased Property pursuant to the
Lease. The Board hereby determines and declares that the period during which the District has
an option to purchase the 2017A Leased Property (i.e., the entire maximum term of the Lease)
does not exceed the useful life of the 2017A Leased Property.
Section 8.
Exercise of Option; Direction to 2010 Trustee. In the event that
the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer determines to proceed with the refunding of
a portion of the 2010A Certificates and executes a Sale Certificate in accordance with the
provisions set forth herein, the Board hereby elects and hereby declares its intent to exercise on
the behalf and in the name of the District its option to redeem a portion of the 2010A Certificates
as set forth in the Sale Certificate (the “Refunded 2010A Certificates”), on the date or dates and
at the redemption prices set forth in the Sale Certificate. Upon the execution of the Sale
Certificate related to the refunding of a portion of the 2010A Certificates, the District hereby
irrevocably instructs the 2010 Trustee to give notice of refunding and defeasance to the Owners
of the Refunded 2010A Certificates in accordance with the provisions of the Sale Certificate, the
2010 Indenture and the Escrow Agreement. In accordance with the provisions of the 2010
Indenture, the District further instructs the Trustee to recalculate the schedule of Base Rentals set
forth in Exhibit B to the 2010 Lease to reflect the reduction in the outstanding principal amount
of the 2010A Certificates by reason of such defeasance and redemption.

6
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

Section 9.
Exercise of Option; Direction to 2015A Trustee. In the event that
the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer determines to proceed with the refunding of
a portion of the 2015A Certificates and executes a Sale Certificate in accordance with the
provisions set forth herein, the Board hereby elects and hereby declares its intent to exercise on
the behalf and in the name of the District its option to redeem a portion of the 2015A Certificates
as set forth in the Sale Certificate (the “Refunded 2015A Certificates”), on the date or dates and
at the redemption prices set forth in the Sale Certificate. Upon the execution of the Sale
Certificate related to the refunding of a portion of the 2015A Certificates, the District hereby
irrevocably instructs the 2015A Trustee to give notice of refunding and defeasance to the Owners
of the Refunded 2015A Certificates in accordance with the provisions of the Sale Certificate, the
2015 Indenture and the Escrow Agreement. In accordance with the provisions of the 2015
Indenture, the District further instructs the Trustee to recalculate the schedule of Base Rentals set
forth in Exhibit B to the 2015 Lease to reflect the reduction in the outstanding principal amount
of the 2015A Certificates by reason of such redemption.
Section 10.
No Recourse against Officers and Agents. Pursuant to Section 1157-209 of the Supplemental Act, if a member of the Board, or any officer or agent of the District
acts in good faith, no civil recourse shall be available against such member, officer, or agent for
payment of any amounts due under the Lease or the Assignment Agreement. Such recourse shall
not be available either directly or indirectly through the Board or the District, or otherwise,
whether by virtue of any constitution, statute, rule of law, enforcement of penalty, or otherwise.
By the acceptance of the Assignment Agreement and as a part of the consideration of its sale or
purchase, the Registered Owner and any person purchasing or selling the Assignment Agreement
specifically waives any such recourse.
Section 11.
Repealer. All bylaws, orders and resolutions of the District, or
parts thereof, inconsistent with this Resolution or with any of the documents hereby approved are
hereby repealed to the extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed as
reviving any bylaw, order or resolution of the District, or part thereof, heretofore repealed.
Section 12.
Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, clause or
provision of this Resolution or the documents hereby authorized and approved (other than
provisions as to the payment of Base Rentals by the District during the Lease Term, provisions
for the quiet enjoyment of the 2017A Leased Property by the District during the Lease Term and
provisions for the conveyance of the 2017A Leased Property to the District under the conditions
provided in the Lease) shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity
or unenforceability of such section, subsection, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect
any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution or such documents, the intent being that the
same are severable.

7
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

Section 13.
Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage and adoption.
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this July 25, 2017.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By
Chair, Board of Directors
[SEAL]

Attest:

Secretary, Board of Directors

8
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

STATE OF COLORADO

)
)
)
)
) SS.
)
)
)
)

CITY AND COUNTY OF BROOMFIELD,
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER, AND
COUNTIES OF ADAMS, ARAPAHOE,
BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON
AND WELD
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

I, the Secretary of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Regional
Transportation District, in the City and County of Broomfield, City and County of Denver and
the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of
Colorado (the “District”), do hereby certify:
1.
The foregoing pages are a true and correct copy of a resolution (the
“Resolution”) passed and adopted by the Board at a meeting thereof held on July 25, 2017.
2.
The Resolution was duly moved and seconded and the Resolution was
adopted at the meeting of July 25, 2017, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board as
follows:
Name
Larry Hoy, Chair
Kate Williams
Barbara Deadwyler
Bonnie “Ernest” Archuleta
Jeff Walker, Secretary
Claudia Folska
Bob Broom
Ken Mihalik
Doug Tisdale
Judy Lubow
Paul Daniel Solano
Lorraine Anderson
Natalie Menten, Treasurer
Tina Francone, First Vice Chair
Charles L. Sisk

Yes

No

Abstain

Absent

3.
The members of the Board were present at such meeting constituting a
quorum and voted on the passage of the Resolution as set forth above.
4.
The Resolution was approved and authenticated by the signature of the
Chair of the Board, sealed with the District seal, attested by the Secretary and recorded in the
minutes of the Board.
9
Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

5.
There are no bylaws, rules or regulations of the Board which might
prohibit the adoption of the Resolution.
6.
Notice of the meeting of July 25, 2017 in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A was posted at 1600 Blake Street within the District, at least twenty-four hours prior to
the meeting in accordance with law.
WITNESS my hand and the seal of the District this ___ day of June, 2017.

Secretary
(SEAL)

10
Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

EXHIBIT A

(Attach copy of notice given prior to the July 25, 2017 meeting)

Attachment: Resolution of RTD - Refunding of 2010 and 2015 COPS (as filed)_36858637_5 (3198 : Resolution to Approve Refinancing for

2.11.D.a

36858637v5

Packet Pg. 23

2.11.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

RTD Board of Directors

Date:

From:

Tina Francone, Director, District N

GM

Date:

July 14, 2017

Board Meeting Date: July 25, 2017

Subject:

Approval of General Manager's 2018 Goals

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that the
Board of Directors approves the General Manager’s goals for 2018 as defined in the attached General
Manager’s Performance Evaluation document.
BACKGROUND
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee works with the General
Manager to enhance its oversight responsibilities for the General Manager’s performance and to develop
processes that are approved by the full Board and are transparent to the public.
On July 20, 2010, the Board formalized and approved the goal setting process for the General Manager.
That process defines the steps the Board will follow in establishing the annual goals for the General
Manager. Beginning in 2011, these goals include core and task goals. Core goals are based on the
General Manager’s job description and are generally considered part of the ongoing responsibilities of the
General Manager. The task goals are a compilation of the priorities from the annual Joint Board and Staff
Advance Planning Session that occurs in the first quarter of the year.
One of the steps in the process is to formalize the General Manager’s annual goals utilizing the RTD
employee performance evaluation form consistent to all salaried RTD employees. This action item is to
formalize that process.
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Chair and the full committee
have reviewed the 2018 core and task goals with the General Manager and approved the goals as
amended at the July 18, 2017 committee meeting to move to the full Board for approval.
DISCUSSION
Please refer to the attached General Manager Performance Evaluation form which identifies the five core
goals for 2018 and the three task goals for 2018. The attached General Manager Tactical Plan for 2018
is submitted as a supplement to this document.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
No financial impact in approving the 2018 Goals.

Packet Pg. 24

2.11.E

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept this recommended action for approval of the General Manager’s 2018 goals. This
approval completes the formalized process as approved by the Board members for goal setting.
2. Do not accept this recommended action. Work with the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee and the General Manager to amend the 2018 goals. This
will significantly delay the schedule established for the approval of the goals.
3. Do nothing. Accept the risk and consequences of not complying with the State Auditor’s
recommendation for a clear, documented and timely process.

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 25

