1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
July 20, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
Attendee Name
Larry Hoy
Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler
Jeff Walker
Natalie Menten

Title
Chair
First Vice Chair
Second Vice Chair
Secretary
Treasurer

Status
Present
Remote
Present
Present
Present

Arrived

Chair Hoy called the Executive Committee to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 1st Vice Chair Francone
(participated via phone but connected
late), 2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler, Secretary
Walker, Treasurer Menten

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive
Manager Barbara McManus, Board Office
Administrator John McKay

II.

July Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy asked for the committee’s any input on the July board agenda.
General Manager Genova said that the few recommended actions were on the
unanimous consent agenda.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, said the only added item
on the agenda was the approval of the General Manager’s performance goals for

2018 that was approved unanimously at the General Manager’s Oversight and
Performance Management Committee on July 18, 2017.
Motion: Chair Hoy made the motion to approve
moving the July 25th Board agenda to the full
Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed with 4 in favor (Hoy,
Deadwyler, Walker, Menten) and 1 absent
(Francone).
III.

Other Matters
Ms. McManus said that the General Manager’s revised memo to the Board, along
with the redlined version, would be in the Board packet that would be sent out the
following day.
Director Menten said that Anne Marie Isaac-Heslop, Internal Audit Manager,
recommended that the agency’s audit reports from the last three years be posted
online. Director Menten said that, as the chair of the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee, she did not see the need for a formal action, and Director Mihalik
had also approved of the recommendation.
Chair Hoy said that posting reports online was an administrative matter to be
determined by General Manager Genova and Ms. Isaac-Heslop.
Ms. McManus said that IT may need to be consulted on the matter because space
may be a concern.
Chair Hoy said that he could not believe space is expensive anymore and that the
issue should be checked out.
General Manager Genova replied that he would check into it.
Chair Hoy said the idea was a good one and that, if anyone in RTD should be
transparent, it is the auditor.
Director Deadwyler asked whether items posted to the agency’s website should be
prioritized.

Chair Hoy agreed and said, if there is not sufficient space, the most important items
should be prioritized.
Director Francone said that posting audits online is a wonderful idea as long as
space is not an issue and that she would like the Board to be notified when items
are posted.
General Manager Genova updated the committee on the potential for the Colorado
General Assembly to conduct a special session. He said that Rolf Asphaug, spoke
with Jenifer Brandeberry of Brandeberry McKenna (BBMK), who said she would be
happy to brief the next Government Relations Committee meeting. General Manager
Genova said he understands the earliest a special session could happen is in
September and that the agency cannot pay for it. He said that, following their
preliminary discussion, Mr. Asphaug and Ms. Brandeberry would not suggest
requesting a special session, because RTD would the focus and the agency may not
like the outcome. He said that Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and
Assistant General Manager of Finance and Administration, had volunteered to put
together a timeline on the bill. He said the timeline would show at what point the
change to the bill occurred that affected RTD’s ability to collect marijuana taxes.
Director Deadwyler asked how long RTD would have to pay $500,000 per month.
General Manager Genova said that the agency does not pay but rather is unable to
collect a portion of sales tax.
Director Deadwyler asked whether the change was indefinite.
General Manager Genova said it would be indefinite unless changed.
Chair Hoy said the change affects RTD’s budget.
General Manager Genova agreed and said the change affects the revenue projected
part of the budget. He said the next Government Relations meeting would be held
on August 1, 2017. He mentioned that a new fiscal note had been generated on
SB17-267, this time, including RTD, which he said is a step in the right direction.
Director Francone said she had spoken with state legislators the previous weekend.
She said that some legislators would willingly reopen SB267 because they do not
like the bill. She said those individuals would not just fix the clerical error but rather
kill the bill. She said she wants to hear legal briefing on what the agency should do.

Director Deadwyler asked how the bill could be reopened.
General Manager Genova said RTD could ask the Governor to call a special session
and the agency would want to work with the Scientific and Cultural Facilities
District (SCFD) to avoid being the lone agency.
Chair Hoy said that it may take an agency like RTD to stand up.
General Manager Genova said that RTD is by far the big person in the room.
Director Walker said that, during the last Executive Committee Meeting, he
mentioned he was looking into an issue with expense reports. He said his questions
and discussions dealt with the amount of certain expenses and the purpose of
those expense. He said he did some research and had asked Mr. Asphaug for
guidance. He said the provisions that cover expense reporting describe what
Directors can receive as gifts, and that those provisions were mostly from the
federal Internal Revenue Service (IRS), because some private sector expenses are
deductible. He said there is not a lot of guidance for elected officials. He noted that
a recurring phrase used to discuss expense says that expenses should be “ordinary
and necessary to the course of business” and “directly related or associated” to the
business. He said the expense report in question has been revised but is
uncharacteristically large compared to other reports the Director has submitted. He
said the fact that that the report is unusually high is what gives the Chair the ability
to bring it before the Executive Committee. He said that individually the expenses
are justifiable, but the sum total of the expenses is unusually high. He identified a
particularly large expense for a meal with one other person and one for an event
put on by a political organization.
Chair Hoy said that expense reports are typically around a certain amount per
month, but the one in question was much higher. He noted that the submitter of
that report had revised it.
Director Walker said that typically expenses as used in the ordinary course of
business require that the meeting should have the expectation of a contract given
or a step to a contract given. He said that Directors do not sign contracts on their
own and said he felt that food expenses informational meetings may be okay. He
said it was the high number of the expenses on the expense report in question that
caught his eye. He said other reports have minor corrections and he was not
singling out one person.

Director Deadwyler said that former Directors have expensed meals at costly
establishments. She said she as glad that Director Walker was looking at the
expensive. She said that in the past a political group wanted to acknowledge her
and others as recipients of a community award. She said that Directors should
consider the purpose of an activity.
Director Walker said he had infrequently seen expensive meals in the past but the
report in question contained a particularly large meal expense, which also caught
his eye.
Chair Hoy said he wondered about the purpose of that expense.
Director Walker said that the justification was not descriptive enough and that he
told the Director to revise his expense report or find someone else to sign it. He
noted the Director removed that large meal expense and one other item as well. He
said he felt the meal expense to be substantial enough to bring to the Chair’s
attention, and the Chair wanted to discuss the expense in front of the Executive
Committee.
Director Deadwyler asked whether there is a limit for an expense to be reasonable.
Ms. McManus responded that she reviews all expenses that come into the Board
Office and reviews the reports with Directors as necessary. She said that, if they
insist an expense was a proper business expense, she does not argue with them
but refers any really extraordinary items to the Chair.
Director Walker said he did not want the expense report in question to be a
reflection on staff, because they did their job, but stated he has the ability to go
beyond. He said he would sign the report in question it if the executive committee
agrees.
Chair Hoy said that it is the prerogative of the Chair to bring expense reports to the
Executive Committee so the members can discuss them and set the tone and pace
for Directors. He said there is a lot of gray in expense reports and applauded
Director Walker for finding the demarcation line. He said one of the purposes of
bring the matter before the committee was to let the other members of the Board
knows they are looking. He said each Director feels what is appropriate. He said the
Directors have a limit on travel and local expenses and asked how closely to watch
individual expenses.

Director Deadwyler said the Chair approves changes in policy and that the next
Chair could set a different policy. She said unless firm limits were established, the
committee should leave expenses alone and question exceptions as they come.
Chair Hoy said it is difficult to find guidance and for Directors to let their
conscience be their guide.
Ms. McManus said that the Board Office transfers funds between each Director’s
travel and local expense budgets and that IT expenses cannot be commingled.
Director Walker said that he had exceeded his travel due to his involvement with
the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) and would need to transfer
funds from his local account.
Chair Hoy asked whether such transfers were merely clerical or if he would need to
approve them.
Ms. McManus said that any travel beyond the first two sanctioned trips must first
be approved by the Chair.
Chair Hoy asked whether he would be asked to approve of transfers for someone
who runs out of local funds early in the year or whether that transfer is automatic.
Ms. McManus said that, based on the Director needs, the Board Office would make
the transfer automatically. She said that the transfer is done automatically at the
end of the year and that she would soon be sending out an email stating that. She
noted that the Board Office has always had difficulty getting expenses in without
rolling over to the next year. She said all annual expenses in arrears should be
turned in by November so that only expenses occurring in December would be
processed in December, which allows the end-of-year budget process be clean.
Director Walker noted that travel expense moneys transfer to the local account
automatically but not from local to travel.
Ms. McManus said that Directors cannot travel without prior permission.
Director Deadwyler noted one previous trip when a former Chair used discretionary
funds to pay for Directors who had exhausted their expense accounts.
Director Walker noted that Directors are restricted from traveling in the last three
months of their terms if they are not up for re-election.

Director Menten said she agreed with the limits in place and that one of the
advantages of being Chair is the ability to keep an eye on Directors’ expenses. She
asked Director Walker if he would sign the report in question.
Director Walker said he was hesitant to sign.
Chair Hoy asked how much control the committee has over high dollar expenses.
Director Menten said there are reasonable expenses and the Board should not
blindly accept expenses. She said the public would want to see the expenses and,
in the case of partisan politics, there are definite rules.
Director Francone said that the Directors are elected officials who need common
sense to understand what is right and wrong, because they are responsible for
taxpayer dollars. Having said that, she said there are legitimate purposes and
reasons for entertaining constituents or business leaders to further the business of
RTD. She said there is a difference between a high dollar meal and an inexpensive
one and that there may be a reason to take someone to the expensive one. She
said the purpose of expense should be within reason.
Chair Hoy summarized that he and the Executive Committee are in agreement and
that there will be times to make exceptions. He said he does not want to redefine
expenses because they are not defined for a reason. He said that the Board is on
the same wavelength.
Director Francone said she did not have an opinion because she did not know the
nature or purpose of the expenses in question.
Chair Hoy reiterated he did not intend to ask the committee to approve the expense
but rather wanted to gather the member’s thoughts. He said the report in question
has been vetted and, though the total of the expenses is large, there is no reason to
challenge individual expenses on the report. He said that the expenses can be
justified individually.
Director Francone said she appreciated the explanation but did not know how
beneficial this discussion has been without further detail.
Director Walker said the typical reason to bring such an item to a larger body is to
ask questions of others about the submitter. He said that a person experiencing
financial problems, for example, could ramp up their expenses.

Director Deadwyler said that, unless a dollar limit is established, the committee
needed to leave the expenses alone.
Director Walker said that, if no one has concern, he would approve the expense.
Chair Hoy said that the matter of the discussion would not be secret in two weeks’
time.
Director Deadwyler said that the discussion would make others aware that
expenses would be questioned in the future.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 1:01 p.m.

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - July 25, 2017
II.

Pledge of Allegiance

XI.

Unanimous Consent

A.
Construction Award for IFB 37-DH 001. Customer Care Call Center and Treasury
Repair Facility.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to
AD Miller Services in the amount not-to-exceed of $5,627,730 for the New Customer
Care Call Center and Treasury Repair Facility project. Funding for this contract is included
in the 2017 Amended Budget. It is further recommended that the General Manager or his
designee be authorized to issue contract amendments in the total amount not-to-exceed
the remaining approved project budget of $845,393 as needed.
B.
Enter into a Contract with RouteMatch for MDT and On-Board Software for Accessa-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for computerized Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) and
onboard software with RouteMatch Software, Inc. (RouteMatch) (Contract Number
17DH025) for an amount not to exceed $1,800,000. The price includes MDTs,
software, implementation and three years of extended support.
BACKGROUND
RTD’s Access-a-Ride paratransit service provides transportation in the Denver metro area
for people whose disabilities prevent them from using lift-equipped fixed-route bus service.
Access-a-Ride service uses vehicles equipped with RouteMatch software and iPilot 8000

computerized Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) and associated onboard equipment that
enables dispatching and communications via the RouteMatch paratransit scheduling and
central dispatch software (‘RouteMatch central software’). The current MDTs entered
service in 2009 and reached end of useful life several years ago. The current MDT’s have
very high failure rates and are hard to procure. Consequently, it is imperative that the
MDTs be replaced with modern equipment in order to provide Access-a-Ride drivers with
the necessary tools to provide this important service.
DISCUSSION
RTD currently utilizes paratransit scheduling software produced by “RouteMatch.” It is
necessary that the on-board software loaded on the MDT’s integrate with the backend
RouteMatch software in order to allow Access-a-ride drivers to receive accurate
information to perform their duties.
Onboard software that integrates with the
RouteMatch central software is already developed.
RTD conducted an evaluation of the various options to replace the existing Access-a-Ride
Mobile Data Terminals. The option with the quickest deployment, least risk and lowest
cost is to have RouteMatch deploy new modern versions of the computerized MDTs with
onboard software. Requiring RouteMatch to provide the updated hardware and software,
perform the integration and thus provide the complete solution to modernize the Access-aRide MDT’s will speed the process by providing fewer procurements and result in a single
point of contact for RTD to have one vendor responsible for all of the functionality
associated with the upgrade of the Access-a-Ride MDT’s.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this project is included in the adopted RTD budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with RouteMatch
to provide computerized MDTs and onboard software.
This is the recommended
alternative.
2. Continue to t r y t o provide remedial repairs to extend the system life. This is not
a sustainable option and does not provide the upgrades necessary for Access-a-Ride
drivers to perform their duties. This is not recommended.
3. Proceed with an entirely new procurement for a new paratransit scheduling software
package and integrated MDT’s. This would take well over a year to procure and deploy
the chosen system and is not budgeted. This is not recommended.
Prepared by: Eric Farrington

C.
Enter into a Contract with INIT for Automatic Passenger Counters for Light Rail
Vehicles
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for purchase, installation and maintenance of Automatic
Passenger Counters (APCs) with INIT Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) (Contract
Number 17DH026) for an amount not to exceed $2,400,000 and transfer up to $950,000
from project 10444 (Mobile Data Terminals) to project 10345 (New Automatic Passenger
Counter).
BACKGROUND
RTD uses APC’s on light rail vehicles to monitor on-time performance and to gather
ridership information. The data collected by the APCs is ingested into the INIT Computer
Aided Dispatch/ Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) system for compilation,
presentation, and analysis of ridership numbers and on-time performance calculations. This
data is key for required federal reporting, operational considerations and planning.
Currently, only 42 of the 201 vehicle LRV fleet (24%) are equipped with APC’s making it
very difficult to provide statistically valid information.
DISCUSSION
RTD recently purchased hardware for the Access-a-Ride Mobile Data Terminal (MDT)
Replacement project. Staff subsequently determined that the equipment could be better
utilized on the LRV fleet to expand the number of APC equipped light rail cars to help with
passenger count and on-time performance measurement. A less expensive alternative for
the Access-a-Ride MDT Replacement Project has been identified and pursued, freeing up
some funds that can be transferred to purchase additional APCs for light rail.
RTD currently has an authorized and budgeted project (Project 10345 -New Auto
Passenger Counters) to begin to upgrade and expand the number of APC’s on the LRV
fleet. Utilizing some of the hardware that had already been purchased for the Access-aRide MDT project and transferring the remaining funds from the MDT project will allow
RTD to expand the scope of the currently budgeted LRV APC project and further increase
the number of Light Rail Vehicles that can be equipped with new APC equipment. By using
some of this equipment and transferring these additional funds, the APC coverage on the
LRV fleet can be increased to over 70%. This will allow for easier and more timely
compilation of statistically valid data for monitoring on-time performance and for gathering
ridership data for internal and external reporting. This equipment will be upgraded for both
reliability and for security of data transmissions over Wi-Fi. This will be a sole source
contract to INIT in order to expand the number of APC equipped light rail vehicles with
technology similar to and compatible with the technology that is utilized on the existing
LRV fleet.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this project (Project 10345- New Automatic Passenger Counters) is included in the
adopted RTD budget. The transfer of up to $950,000 from project 10444- Mobile Data
Terminals, also included in the adopted RTD budget, to project 10345 will fund the
requested expansion of this effort.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract for purchase, installation and maintenance of Automatic Passenger
Counters (APCs) with INIT Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) (Contract Number
17DH026) for an amount not to exceed $2,400,000 and transfer up to $950,000 from
project 10444 (Mobile Data Terminals) to project 10345 (New Automatic Passenger
Counter). This is the recommended alternative.
2. Continue to try to utilize existing resources and provide minimal expansion and upgrade
to the existing APC’s. This does not leverage the existing hardware purchase and
minimizes improvements in data collection and service monitoring and is not the
recommended alternative.
D.

Resolution to Approve Refinancing for Interest Savings

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and related documents
in connection with the partial refinancing of the 2010A and 2015A Certificates of
Participation.
E.

Approval of General Manager's 2018 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approves the General Manager’s goals for 2018 as
defined in the attached General Manager’s Performance Evaluation document.

XII.

Recommended Action

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

