1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, October 13, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:21 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

5:29 PM
5:35 PM
5:23 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

5:31 PM

Larry Hoy

Committee Chair

Present

5:27 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Absent

5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:33 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:25 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:32 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:29 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:19 PM

Directors Anderson and Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Garrett Christnacht, Heather Copp, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz,
Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Adrina Gibson, Kate Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Jim Kelley, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales,
Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Zamy
Silva, Bill Sirois, Yong Song, Henry Stopplecamp, Lisa Trujillo, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Eric Anderson, GB Arrington, Mike Dino, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene
Howard, Lorna Moritz, Steve Price, Bob Rizzuto, Dave Sachs, Danielle
Smith, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett

B. Citizens Advisory Committee Update
Bob Rizzuto from the Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) informed the Directors
that the committee has been active discussing how the CAC could become better
engaged as FasTracks winds down. Discussions have been held within the
committee, with RTD staff and with RTD Directors. The committee expects to
have a draft recommendation by the end of next week. The draft will include a list
of ideas, suggestions, and items for discussion.
Bob Rizzuto noted that the last CAC meeting was held at the Westminster City
Council chambers and it was well attended. RTD staff made two presentations:
one on the Flatiron Flyer and one on the Northwest commuter line. He thanked
staff for the great presentations.
Citizens for Finishing FasTracks, a group based out of Longmont, also made a
presentation during the CAC meeting. Bob Rizzuto said that their presentation led
to a very good discussion in which some questions were answered and good
suggestions were presented. He added that Dave Downing, Westminster City
Engineer, and Director Hoy also were in attendance.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that it sounded like the CAC has been very busy. He
thought the meeting in Westminster went really well.
Director Solano wondered if there have been any discussions within the CAC about
the Northeast Area Transit Evaluation (NATE) and the transit connection between
Commerce City and Brighton. Bob Rizzuto replied that the NATE is not a current
topic of discussion but that does not mean that it will not be discussed in the
future.

Director Lubow said that she is always impressed with the dedication of the CAC
volunteers. She asked Bob Rizzuto to forward her gratitude to his peers. Bob
Rizzuto noted that the CAC consist of 17 volunteers. He has been part of the
committee for 6 years and all the committee members throughout this time have
been very committed and dedicated. He thanked the Directors for their support.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked Bob Rizzuto for the report and the CAC for all their
work.

C. Recommended Actions
No recommended actions were presented.

D. Updates

• I-225 Rail Line Project Update
Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs,
introduced Chuck Culig, I-225 Engineering Project Manager. He presented
the I-225 Rail Line Project Update as included in the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee agenda packet for October 13, 2015. The presentation included
rail line progress, upcoming construction, public information update, time
lapse video of the Florida Station Pedestrian Bridge, the Alameda-Sable
intersection closure and pedestrian access, and picture updates of the
construction.
Adrina Gibson, Manager for the Small Business Office (SBO), presented an
update on the line’s Small Business Enterprise (SBE) program. She
highlighted that Kiewit’s SBE participation goal is 25%; however, the SBE
commitment to date is 30%.
Director Tobiassen noted that the closure of the Alameda-Sable intersection
has been huge for the community. He congratulated the residents for being
informed and avoiding major traffic issues. He thanked the Public
Information (PI) team and City of Aurora Public Relations for keeping the
public informed of changes. He said that the team working on the I-225 line
is great. He looks forward to all the projects wrapping up.
Director Folska thanked Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer, and Lisa
Trujillo, I-225 PI Project Manager, for their participation in the Town Hall for
District E. She added that many constituents have emailed her to express
their appreciation for the Town Hall.
Director Folska informed the Directors that she participated in a tour of the
Elati Maintenance Facility with some of her constituents. Phil Eberl, General
Superintendent for Light Rail Vehicle Maintenance, informed Director Folska
during the tour that 12 permanent mechanics have been hired through the

Work Initiative Now (WIN) program and that Rail Operations looks to hire
more. Director Folska encouraged staff to continue the partnership between
the WIN program and local colleges.
Director Folska asked staff to talk about the new safety campaign. Lisa
Trujillo said that the campaign will kick off at the end of October. She does
not want to divulge too much information as the Marketing Department will
make a presentation during the October 20, 2015 Operations and Customer
Service Committee meeting; however, she mentioned that the campaign will
raise awareness of safety at rail crossings and the entire RTD system.
Henry Stopplecamp added that his children had looked at the campaign on
their mobile devices and enjoyed it.
Director Folska mentioned that during the Town Hall for District F, Director
Tobiassen encouraged the community to go out of their way and patronize
the businesses affected by the closure of the Alameda-Sable intersection.
She said that this was rightly said as this time of the year is one of the
busiest times for all businesses.
Director Folska thanked Matt Druffle, Office Engineer at Jacobs, for creating
the commemorative puzzle pieces for the I-225 Rail celebration.
Director Deadwyler said that she has been watching the project for the last
couple of years. She noted that for a while it looked like there was not a lot
going on. She was glad to hear during the presentation that the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) is also doing construction as she
thought that the closure at Colfax in downtown Aurora was part of RTD’s
projects.
Director Deadwyler wondered when staff expected the Alameda-Sable
intersection to reopen. She noted that for her accessing the area has been
really difficult. Chuck Culig replied that staff is aiming for the second week
of November and hopes to reopen the intersection by Thanksgiving.
Director Deadwyler tells her constituents that everything will be beautiful
once completed. She added that it is great to have the Thanksgiving
timeline.
Chair Sisk noted that he is very impressed with all the work on the I-225 rail
line. He complemented staff for their work. He pointed out that Kiewit’s
SBE commitment is phenomenal and shows what we can do by virtue of
infusing money into a sector. He congratulated Lisa Trujillo for keeping the
community informed.
Chair Sisk asked staff for a firm date on the reopening of the Alameda-Sable
intersection. He noted that saying “Thanksgiving” is too loose. Chuck Culig

said that the plan is for the intersection to reopen on Monday or Tuesday of
Thanksgiving week. Chair Sisk said that it would be great to have the date
on a sign so the community can be informed.
Director Bagley wondered what the specific date for the opening of the R
line is. Chuck Culig replied that the specific date has not been determined
but will be brought to the Board as soon as it becomes available. Director
Bagley asked what the travel time will be from the Nine Mile Station to the
Peoria Station. Chuck Culig replied that the estimated travel time from the
Lincoln station to the Peoria station is one hour. He noted that staff is still
coordinating with the City of Aurora regarding stop signals and other
matters. Director Bagley pointed out that assuming receipt of the Full
Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) for the Southeast rail line; the R line would
start at the Ridgegate Station, 2.5 miles south of the Lincoln Station. He
added that it will be important to start understanding the travel time from
the Ridgegate Station to the Airport as the AT bus route will still be
operational after the R line opens.
Committee Chair Hoy said that he appreciates all the work by staff. He
pointed out that people can see the progress in the area.

E. Other Matters
Director Bagley mentioned that 8 Directors attended the APTA Annual Meeting in
San Francisco, CA: Directors Anderson, Archuleta, Francone, Hoy, Sisk, Solano,
Walker, and himself. He noted that it was a very successful convention from a
number of perspectives. He attended a session that provided great information on
Transit Oriented Development. Director Bagley asked Dave Genova, Interim
General Manager, about the award the Southeast line received. Dave Genova
explained that Susan Wood, Manager for Environmental Planning, accepted the
2015 Outstanding Achievement Award for Excellence in Environmental
Documentation Preparation on behalf of RTD. Director Bagley added that RTD’s
Marketing Department received 5 Ad Wheel awards during the conference. He
noted that staff is to be congratulated on their efforts.

F. Next Meeting Date - November 03, 2015
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:13 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices

Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

