Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Julien Bouquet, District G
First Vice Chair – Patrick O’Keefe, District H
Second Vice Chair – Troy Whitmore, District K
Secretary – Chris Nicholson, District A
Treasurer – Karen Benker, District I
Vince Buzek, District J
Peggy Catlin, District N
Kathleen Chandler, District F
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Chris Gutschenritter, District D

Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L
Matt Larsen, District E
Brett Paglieri, District M
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, June 24, 2025
IN-PERSON/REMOTE MEETING
3:00 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 891 0447 4895#
Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.Directors@rtd-denver.com

I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call

III.

Public Comment

IV.

Recommended Action

A.

Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) or her
delegate to execute the attached Intergovernmental Agreement for the Joint Service
Executive Committee Oversight.
B.

System Advertising Contract Termination

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her delegate to
execute all documents necessary to terminate RTD’s System Advertising Contract with
Lamar Transit for an amount not to exceed $2,534,655.15.

V.

Other Matters

VI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

4.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement

June 24, 2025
Board Meeting Date:
June 24, 2025

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) or her delegate to
execute the attached Intergovernmental Agreement for the Joint Service Executive Committee
Oversight.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, GM/CEO
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The General Assembly of the State of Colorado passed and Governor Polis signed into law, Senate Bill
24-184 (SB184), which authorizes RTD, the Front Range Passenger Rail District (FRPRD), the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT), and the Colorado High performance Transportation Enterprise,
dba the Colorado Transportation Investment Office (CTIO) to develop an implementation plan for using
their respective authorities to deliver, construct, and operate passenger rail service from Denver Union
Station to Fort Collins, Colorado, as the first phase of front range passenger rail service (Joint Service).
In addition to RTD’s existing revenue sources that may be utilized toward Joint Service, there are other
new potential funding sources. SB184 created a congestion impact daily rental car fee that may be used
by CTIO for transportation infrastructure projects. Senate Bill 24-230 (SB230) authorizes the Clean
Transit Enterprise (CTE) to impose an oil and gas production fee that may be used to fund clean transit
options in Colorado.
DISCUSSION
RTD and representatives from the Governor’s Office and the above state entities have been meeting over
the last year to collaboratively explore options for bringing Joint Service to fruition. As an initial step,
RTD, CDOT’s Transportation Commission (TC), CTIO, CTE, FRPRD, and the Governor’s Office have
worked together on a proposed intergovernmental agreement (IGA) as authorized by SB184. The
purpose of the IGA is to establish a Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee (JSEOC) composed of
one representative from each of the six parties to coordinate and make recommendations and decisions
with respect to the project. Importantly, the JSEOC will be responsible for engaging with BNSF Railway
(BNSF) to negotiate an access agreement for use of its freight rail lines.

Packet Pg. 3

4.A

The proposed IGA creates a governance structure that will make decisions by a supermajority vote of
the members (majority +1). The parties will collaborate to prepare a Financial Plan for the project, which
must be approved by each party. After the approval of such plan, a weighted voting structure will be in
place that accounts for the funds expended by each party to advance the project. Under the IGA, each
of the public entities retains its decision-making authority, including regarding appropriations and
funding. Project planning and improvements shall not interfere with RTD’s commuter rail operations nor
impair the implementation or operation of the passenger rail system contemplated within FRPRD’s
geographic boundary. Finally, the IGA includes processes for its termination, withdrawal of a party, and
creation of a transfer plan.
It is anticipated that the public entity Boards undertake consideration of the proposed IGA during the
month of June 2025, with action taken by CTIO and TC mid-June and RTD, CTE, and FRPRD by the end
of June.
By adopting this recommended action, the agency furthers its Strategic Priorities of Community Value,
Customer Excellence, and Financial Success.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact to adopting this recommended action.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA

(PDF)

•

General Assembly Letters of Support

(PDF)

•

BNSF letter regarding Colorado IGA

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Melanie Snyder, General Counsel
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

DRAFT

4.A.a

INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT FOR
THE JOINT SERVICE EXECUTIVE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

(i) The Transportation Commission of Colorado (the “Commission”), for the use and benefit of
the Colorado Department of Transportation (“CDOT”);
(ii) The Clean Transit Enterprise (“CTE”);
(iii) The Colorado High Performance Transportation Enterprise, dba the Colorado Transportation
Investment Office (“CTIO”);
(iv) The Regional Transportation District (“RTD”);
(v) The Front Range Passenger Rail District (“FRPRD”); and
(vi) The Governor (the “Governor”) of the State of Colorado (the “State”).
CDOT, CTE, CTIO, RTD, FRPRD, and the Governor are referred to individually as a “Party” and
collectively as the “Parties.”
RECITALS
WHEREAS, the General Assembly of the State of Colorado approved Senate Bill 24-184 (“SB24-184”),
which was signed by Governor Jared Polis on May 16, 2024, and which implemented, inter alia, § 32-22103(5), C.R.S., which authorizes RTD, FRPRD, CDOT, and CTIO to develop an implementation plan for
using their respective authorities to deliver, construct, and operate passenger rail service from Denver Union
Station, located in Denver, Colorado, to Fort Collins, Colorado, as the first phase of front range passenger
rail service;
WHEREAS, §§ 32-9-119(1)(w.5), 32-22-106(1)(s.5), 43-1-106(8)(q.5), 43-4-806(6)(p.5), C.R.S.,
authorize RTD, CDOT, CTIO, and FRPRD to enter into a standalone intergovernmental agreement to
implement the completion of construction and operation of passenger rail service from Denver Union
Station to Fort Collins as the first phase of front range passenger rail service;
WHEREAS, § 43-1-117.5(3)(a)(II), C.R.S, authorizes CDOT to promote, plan, design, build, finance,
operate, maintain, and contract for transit services, including passenger rail, and advanced guideway
systems services through its Division of Transit and Rail;
WHEREAS, § 43-4-806, C.R.S., empowers CTIO “to aggressively pursue innovative means of more
efficiently financing important surface transportation infrastructure projects that will improve the safety,
capacity, and accessibility of the surface transportation system, provide diverse multimodal transportation
options that reduce traffic congestion and degradation of existing surface transportation infrastructure and
offer more transportation choices for system users”;
WHEREAS, § 43-4-1203, C.R.S., authorizes CTE to fund clean transit options in Colorado;
WHEREAS, § 32-22-103, C.R.S., directs FRPRD to “research, develop, construct, operate, and maintain
an interconnected passenger rail system” within the FRPRD’s geographic boundary (extending from
Colorado’s border with Wyoming to Colorado’s border with New Mexico), including from Denver Union
Station to Fort Collins, which represents an initial step in the General Assembly’s vision for FRPRD;
WHEREAS, §§ 32-9-101, et seq., C.R.S., authorizes RTD “to develop, maintain, and operate a mass
transportation system for the benefit of the inhabitants of the district,” which system may include rail service
within the Northwest Corridor, defined below;

Page 1 of 19

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

THIS AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”), is entered into by and among:

DRAFT

4.A.a

WHEREAS, the Parties established a joint committee for the purpose of investigating the combination of
the Parties’ powers and resources to build and operate passenger rail service from Denver Union Station to
Fort Collins;

WHEREAS, one goal of the Parties in building and operating passenger rail service from Denver Union
Station to Fort Collins is to bring a starter passenger rail service to market expeditiously and cost effectively
while also considering potential impacts on the anticipated expansion and greater frequency of passenger
rail service contemplated by the General Assembly;
WHEREAS, the Parties are supportive of the creation of the passenger rail system contemplated in § 3222-103(2), C.R.S., and will consider how this Project can support the creation of such a system when
making decisions related to this Project, including whether amendments to this Agreement may be
necessary to facilitate the creation of such a system;
WHEREAS, FRPRD and CDOT currently are using their respective authorities to complete a Service
Development Plan for submission to the Federal Railroad Administration in connection with the passenger
rail system contemplated in § 32-22-103(2), C.R.S.;
WHEREAS, the Parties recognize that pursuing the Project will require significant investments of time
and resources from each of them and that, particularly with respect to upgrading infrastructure and certain
capital construction projects, they are unlikely to be reimbursed for such investments except to the extent
required by law but that pursuing the Project jointly creates cost savings and efficiencies for all Parties;
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into an agreement setting forth the principles of intergovernmental
cooperation upon which they will use their respective authorities and funding streams and establish a plan
and structure for the delivery by a single operator of passenger rail service from Denver Union Station to
Fort Collins; and
WHEREAS, required approval, clearance, and coordination to enter into this Agreement have been
accomplished from and with appropriate State agencies to the extent required by law;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the promises set forth herein the Parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1. The project contemplated by this Agreement (the “Project”) will consist of financing, planning,
constructing, operating, and maintaining passenger rail service from Denver Union Station to Fort
Collins, the proposed route for which is set forth in Exhibit A to this Agreement. The purpose of the
Project is to provide passenger rail service to communities along the proposed route through a single
service provider. The Parties intend that the Project will be the initial phase of the intercity front range
passenger rail service intended to connect communities from Fort Collins to Denver Union Station, and
south to Trinidad.

Page 2 of 19

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

WHEREAS, the Parties intend that passenger rail service from Denver Union Station to Fort Collins will
require the use of freight rail lines operated by BNSF, which has expressed a strong preference for the
Parties to work together to provide one service instead of each Party providing its own service;

DRAFT

4.A.a

ARTICLE 2
DEFINITIONS
2.1. “Board” means the board of directors, commission, or governing entity of a Party.

2.3. “Contribution” means funds a Party has expended that advance the completion of the Project, whether
such funds were expended prior to or after the date of this Agreement, except that funds a Party
expended prior to or after the date of this Agreement solely for its own benefit or its own evaluation of
the Project shall not be considered Contributions. For the avoidance of confusion and without limiting
the language in the preceding sentence, Contributions include, but are not limited to, funds expended
(a) for studies that inform decisions that must be taken with respect to the Project (such as the Northwest
Rail Peak Service Study), (b) to administer the Project on behalf of all Parties, and (c) on design,
construction, and other operational and capital expenditures for the Project. Funds a Party expends to
pay for staff time spent on JSEOC governance activities on behalf of that Party shall not be considered
Contributions.
2.4. “C.R.S.” means the Colorado Revised Statutes, as may be amended from time to time.
2.5. “Exhibit” means, as the context requires, Exhibit A (Proposed Route), Exhibit B (Weighted Voting), or
Exhibit C (Contributions), all of which are attached to this Agreement and incorporated herein by this
reference.
2.6. “Financial Plan” means a financial plan for the Project approved by each of the Parties.
2.7. “JSEOC” means the Joint Services Executive Oversight Committee established pursuant to section 4.1
of this Agreement.
2.8. “Member” means the individuals set forth in section 4.3 of this Agreement, or their respective
successors. Unless specified to the contrary in this Agreement, a reference to a Member shall include
the Member’s designee.
2.9. “Northwest Corridor” means the Northwest Fixed Guideway Corridor between Denver Union Station
(located in Denver, Colorado) and Longmont, Colorado.
2.10. “Notice” means a written notice required to be delivered to the Members pursuant to this Agreement,
in accordance with Article 9 of this Agreement. The defined term shall not include notices sent by the
Members in their individual capacity.
2.11. “Prior Approval” is defined in section 6.2 of this Agreement.
2.12. “Project” is defined in Article 1 of this Agreement.
2.13. “Quorum” means the number of Members required to be present at a duly convened meeting of the
JSEOC, in person, electronically, or a combination thereof, to conduct business.

Page 3 of 19

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

2.2. “Chair” means the Member selected by a Vote of the Members to serve as the chairperson of the
JSEOC.

DRAFT

4.A.a

2.15. “Vice Chair” means the Member selected by a Vote of the Members to serve as Vice Chair of the
JSEOC. During the absence or disability of the Chair, the Vice Chair will perform the duties of the
Chair. The Vice Chair will perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the JSEOC from time
to time.
2.16. “Vote of the Members,” means, except as provided in section 6.3.1, the vote of a supermajority of
the Members (a majority of the Members plus 1), present and voting, in person, electronically, or a
combination thereof, at a duly convened meeting at which a Quorum is present.
ARTICLE 3
AUTHORITY
3.1. CDOT. The Transportation Commission of Colorado is created under § 43-1-106(1), C.R.S., and is
authorized to enter into this Agreement on behalf of CDOT under § 43-1-106(8)(q.5), C.R.S. The
Transportation Commission has authorized entry into this Agreement through the passage of Resolution
[ ].
3.2. CTE. CTE is a government-owned business enterprise, created within CDOT under § 43-4-1203(1)(a),
C.R.S. The CTE Board is authorized to enter into this Agreement under § 43-4-1203(6)(d), C.R.S. The
CTE Board has authorized entry into this Agreement through the passage of Resolution [ ].
3.3. CTIO. CTIO is a government-owned business enterprise and division of CDOT, created under § 43-4806(2), C.R.S. The CTIO Board is authorized to enter into this Agreement under § 43-4-806(6)(h),
C.R.S. The CTIO Board has authorized entry into this Agreement through the passage of Resolution
[ ].
3.4. FRPRD. FRPRD is a body politic and corporate and a political subdivision of the State of Colorado,
created under § 32-22-103(1), C.R.S. FRPRD is authorized to enter into this Agreement under § 32-22106(1)(c), C.R.S. The FRPRD Board has authorized entry into this Agreement through the passage of
Resolution [ ].
3.5. RTD. RTD is a political subdivision of the State of Colorado, created under § 32-9-101, et seq., C.R.S.
RTD is authorized to enter this Agreement under § 32-9-119(1)(w.5), C.R.S. Pursuant to § 32-9107.7(3), C.R.S., RTD is authorized to “extend construction and operations of the [Northwest Corridor]
beyond the boundaries of the [RTD District] if any and all capital and operating expenses that it
undertakes outside the [RTD District] are fully accounted for and reimbursed to RTD by a public body.”
The RTD Board has authorized entry into this Agreement through the adoption of a Recommended
Action on [ ].
3.6. The Governor. Article IV, Section 2 of the Colorado Constitution vests the supreme executive power of
the State in the Governor.

Page 4 of 19

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

2.14. “RTD District” means the area comprising RTD’s geographic boundaries as set forth in § 32-9106.1(1), C.R.S.

DRAFT

4.A.a

ARTICLE 4
ORGANIZATION
4.1. JSEOC. The Parties hereby establish the Joint Services Executive Oversight Committee to coordinate
the Parties’ efforts and to make recommendations and decisions with respect to the Project.

CDOT’s Executive Director
CTE’s Director
CTIO’s Director
FRPRD’s General Manager
RTD’s General Manager and Chief Executive Officer
The Governor’s Designee
Any Member may authorize a designee to attend a meeting of the JSEOC and exercise the rights of the
designating Member by the delivery of a notice to the Chair prior to the meeting.
ARTICLE 5
MEETINGS
5.1. Location. Meetings of the JSEOC may be held at any location agreed upon by the Members, in person,
electronically, or a combination thereof as determined by the Chair. Upon the written request of any
Member to the Chair, received at least 48 hours prior to the date and time of an in-person only meeting,
the Chair shall provide a method by which a Member may participate in the meeting electronically and
shall provide Notice to all Members at least 24 hours prior to the scheduled meeting, that includes the
previously established date, time, and place for the scheduled in-person meeting as well as the method
by which Members may attend the meeting electronically.
5.2. Regular Meetings. The JSEOC shall meet at least once per month, at a date and time established by the
Members, to discuss the Project’s progress and to decide matters requiring a Vote of the Members. The
frequency of regular meetings may be modified pursuant to a Vote of the Members. The date, time, or
location of any regularly scheduled meeting may be changed by a Vote of the Members; provided, that
Notice of such change, stating the date, time, and place for the re-scheduled meeting shall be delivered
to all Members by the Chair at least 7 days prior to the meeting, in accordance with Article 9.
5.3. Special Meetings. Special meetings may be called at any time upon the written request of any Member;
provided, however, that Notice of such meeting, stating the time, place, and items to be discussed shall
be delivered to all Members by the Chair at least 24 hours prior to the meeting, in accordance with
Article 9. The Chair shall provide a method by which any Members can participate in the special
meeting electronically.
5.4. Quorum. Except as set forth below, a Quorum of the JSEOC shall consist of 6 Members, present at a
duly convened meeting of the JSEOC, in person, electronically, or a combination thereof.

Page 5 of 19

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

4.2. Members. The Members of the JSEOC shall include

DRAFT

4.A.a

5.4.2. If a Quorum is not present at any duly convened regular or special meeting of the Members
and upon a request made during such meeting by any Member present at the meeting to the
Chair, on the next succeeding business day the Chair shall deliver a Notice to each Member,
calling for a special meeting (the “Second Meeting”) to address the agenda items from the
meeting where a Quorum was not present, and such other matters as deemed appropriate by
the Chair. The Notice shall state the time, place, and items to be discussed, be delivered to all
Members at least 72 hours prior to the Second Meeting, and specify those items on the agenda
for which a vote may be called. If all of the Members are not present at the Second Meeting,
then for the purpose of determining whether a Quorum is present at the Second Meeting, at
least five of the Members in attendance shall constitute a Quorum.
5.5. Chairperson. At the first meeting of the JSEOC, the Members shall designate one of their number to
serve as the Chair for all meetings of the JSEOC by a Vote of the Members. The Chair shall be
responsible for ensuring the delivery of all Notices required to be provided to the Members under this
Agreement. The Chair shall serve in the position for a 1-year term, commencing on the date of the first
meeting of the Members and ending on the first anniversary of such date. Thereafter, the then-serving
Vice Chair shall serve as Chair of the JSEOC for a 1-year term, commencing at the end of the preceding
term and ending on the first anniversary of such date.
5.6. Vice Chairperson. At the first meeting of the JSEOC and by a Vote of the Members, the Members shall
designate one of their number to serve as the Vice Chair for a term of 1 year, commencing on the date
of the first meeting and ending on the first anniversary of such date. The Vice Chair will assist the Chair
as requested and perform such other duties as requested by the JSEOC. If the Chair is unable to perform
their duties as set forth in this Agreement, the Vice Chair shall serve in the position until the Chair is
able to resume their duties. Upon completion of each 1-year term, the then-serving Vice Chair shall
serve as the Chair of the JSEOC for the next succeeding 1-year term, commencing at the end of the
preceding term and ending on the first anniversary of such date. The Members of the JSEOC shall then
designate another Member to serve as Vice Chair for a 1-year term by a Vote of the Members. The
Members shall designate a new Vice Chair by a Vote of the Members each time the then-serving Vice
Chair becomes the JSEOC Chair.
5.7. Minutes. The Chair shall designate an individual—who may, but does not need to be, a Member—to
take minutes at each meeting of the JSEOC. The minutes shall be available for review by any
Member upon request.

Page 6 of 19

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

5.4.1. If a Quorum is not present at any duly convened regular or special meeting of the Members,
the Chair, in their discretion, shall have the option to adjourn the meeting without further
discussion or permit the Members in attendance to discuss the business of the JSEOC;
provided, however, that the Members in attendance shall not have the authority to take or
approve any action requiring a Vote of the Members.

DRAFT

4.A.a

6.1. Actions. Except as specifically provided to the contrary in this Agreement, the JSEOC shall act by a
Vote of the Members. Each Member shall exercise one (1) vote, except as provided in section 6.3 of
this Agreement. Any Member may assign their voting rights to a designee by delivery of a written notice
to the Chair prior to the start of the meeting during which the designee will exercise the Member’s
voting right. Nothing in this Agreement shall restrict the right of a Party to act solely on its own behalf
with respect to any matter.
6.2. Prior Approvals. Laws, regulations, and/or a Party’s internal policies may require the appropriation,
approval, or consent of the Party’s Board (“Prior Approval”) prior to their Member taking action on a
matter. The Member representing the Party may request—and the Chair shall allow—a reasonable
postponement of a vote to permit the Member to seek Prior Approval. A Vote of the Members directing
a Party to act, perform, appropriate, or enter into any agreement that requires Prior Approval shall not
be binding or enforceable unless such Party obtains Prior Approval.
6.3. Weighted Voting. This section 6.3 shall take effect immediately after each Party has approved the
Financial Plan.
6.3.1. Within 10 days following the approval of the Financial Plan, each Member shall submit a
list of its Party’s Contributions to the Chair. Within 20 days following the approval of the
Financial Plan, the Chair shall ensure that the formula set forth in Exhibit B is used to calculate
the respective weighted voting percentage to be assigned to the vote of each Member when one
or more Members calls for a weighted vote. The Chair shall enter the respective weighted
voting percentages on Exhibit C and provide notice thereof to the Members within 25 days
following approval of the Financial Plan. Thereafter, any Member may request a weighted vote
on any matter requiring a vote. The weighted vote shall take place at a regular or special
meeting, convened in accordance with Article 5 of this Agreement. The vote of each Member
shall have the weighted voting percentage assigned to such Member using the then-current
version of Exhibit C. For purposes of a weighted vote, a “Vote of the Members” means a vote
of 75% of the voting power represented by the Members present and voting, in person,
electronically, or a combination thereof, at a duly convened meeting at which a Quorum is
present.
6.3.2. The Chair shall review the weighted voting percentages assigned to Members and set forth
on Exhibit C on a monthly basis. If the Chair receives written notice, with supporting
documentation, of a change to a Party’s Contributions prior to the 5th day of such month, the
Chair shall cause the weighted voting percentages assigned to the Members to be recalculated
on or before the 15th day of such month, using the formula set forth in Exhibit B, and revise
Exhibit C accordingly. The Chair shall provide notice of the recalculation, which shall include
the weight of each Member’s vote by the 20th day of such month. If the Chair has not received
written notice and supporting documentation reporting a change to a Party’s Contributions prior
to the 5th day of any month, the weights assigned to the votes of the Members set forth in the
then-current Exhibit C shall remain unchanged.

Page 7 of 19

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

ARTICLE 6
VOTING

DRAFT

6.3.3. In the event of a dispute with respect to the documentation submitted to the Chair
(including but not limited to whether the funds expended qualify as a Contribution) or of an
error that impacts a prior calculation of a Member’s Contributions or weighted voting
percentage, the matter shall be resolved by a Vote of the Members at a duly convened regular
or special meeting. The Chair shall not include the change to a Party’s Contribution until the
matter has been resolved by a Vote of the Members. The recalculated weight assigned to each
Member shall replace all prior calculations and shall be added to Exhibit B, without the need
for a formal amendment. Any change to the formula used to recalculate the weighted votes
assigned to the Members shall require a formal amendment to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7
MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT
7.1. Management. The JSEOC, by a Vote of the Members, may authorize one or more Parties to engage a
manager or employ a professional management agent or agents (collectively, the “Manager”) to
perform such duties and services as may be authorized by the JSEOC, subject to the JSEOC’s
supervision. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the costs accrued in
connection with such engagement shall be deemed to be a Contribution by the Party or Parties incurring
such costs.
7.2. Working Groups. The JSEOC may establish working groups by a Vote of the Members. Working groups
may be created for any purpose authorized by the Members, subject to supervision of the JSEOC, and
may include such subject matter experts as the Members may determine. Working groups may be
permanent or ad hoc and shall have such duties as may be determined by the Members. The following
working groups are established as of the Effective Date of this Agreement, as defined in section 14.15:
7.2.1. Funding and Finance Working Group. The Funding and Finance Working Group shall be
responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the JSEOC regarding how to fund
the Project.
7.2.2. Operations Working Group. The Operations Working Group shall be responsible for
evaluating and making recommendations to the JSEOC regarding how to operate the service.
7.2.3. Planning and Construction Working Group. The Planning and Construction Working group
shall be responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the JSEOC regarding
necessary or beneficial construction projects and how to accomplish those projects.
ARTICLE 8
FUNDING, ALLOCATION OF TASKS, APPROVALS, AND FINANCING
8.1. Source of Funding. The Project will be funded through Contributions. Each Party, in its respective
discretion, may pursue funding through the issuance of financial instruments, grant applications, or
other means available to them.

Page 8 of 19

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

4.A.a

DRAFT

8.2. Available Funds; Contingency; Termination. The Parties are prohibited by law from making
commitments beyond the term of their respective fiscal years. Commitments beyond the current fiscal
year are contingent on the appropriation and continuing availability of funds in any subsequent year. If
federal funds or any other non-Party funds constitute all or some of a commitment, the obligation of
the Party who would receive the non-Party funds to make Contributions shall be contingent upon such
non-Party funding continuing to be made available. Contributions made pursuant to this Agreement
shall be made only from funds currently appropriated and available, and the liability of a Party for such
Contributions shall be limited to the amount remaining of such funds.
8.3. Rights and Responsibilities. The Members, with the assistance of the Manager, if any, and such
consultants and subject matter experts as may be engaged by a Party and approved by a Vote of the
Members, shall determine the rights and responsibilities of the Parties with respect to the financing,
planning, construction, operation and maintenance of the Project; provided, however, the JSEOC shall
not by a Vote of the Members require any Party to change its Contributions or take or refrain from
taking any action, unless that Party casts its vote in favor of changing its Contributions or taking or
refraining from taking such action. Each Party shall exercise its rights and perform its responsibilities
with respect to the Project in accordance with the laws, regulations, rules, and policies applicable to
such Party.
8.4. Allocation of Responsibilities. The JSEOC shall make decisions and address allocation of
responsibilities with respect to all matters pertaining to the financing, construction, and operation of
the Project, including but not limited to the following:
8.4.1.

The completion of any necessary environmental assessments;

8.4.2.

Procurement and contract planning for the Project;

8.4.3.

The completion of a Transfer Plan, as defined in section 11.1.

8.4.4.

Management of the Project;

8.4.5. Access, construction, operating, and other agreements necessary to complete and operate
the Project, including but not limited to:

Page 9 of 19

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

4.A.a

DRAFT

4.A.a

8.4.5.1 Access, rights-of-way, and real estate agreements with freight railroads;
8.4.5.2 Construction agreement(s) with freight railroads (track work, sidings, signals, etc.);
8.4.5.3 Construction agreement(s) with third parties (stations, maintenance facilities, etc.);

8.4.5.5 Operating agreements with one or more passenger rail service providers.
8.5. Powers and Functions. The JSEOC shall exercise such other planning powers and functions as are
authorized by law and approved by a Vote of the Members. To maximize the impact of their
expenditures, the Members shall not approve designs for or implement the Project in a manner that will
render infeasible the interface of the Project with commuter rail operations in existence at the time such
approval is to be given. The Members shall also strive to approve designs for and implement the Project
in a manner that will advance not only this Project but also anticipated future phases of Front Range
passenger rail service. Further, the Members shall not approve any course of action with respect to the
Project that would have the effect of unreasonably and severely impairing the implementation or
operation of the passenger rail system contemplated in § 32-22-103(2), C.R.S.
8.6. Staffing. Initial staffing for the Project shall be provided by the Parties at no charge.
8.7. Administrative Expenses. Responsibility for the administrative expenses of the JSEOC and the working
groups shall be allocated among the Parties by a Vote of the Members.
8.8. Payment of Existing Debt Obligations Upon Termination. When, consistent with a Vote of the
Members, a Party (the “Obligated Party”) agrees to take on a financial obligation in furtherance of the
Project, the Obligated Party may enter into a separate agreement (the “Separate Agreement”) with any
other Party specifying that such Party will assist the Obligated Party with that financial obligation in
the event this Agreement terminates prior to the satisfaction of the financial obligation. Unless the
Obligated Party and any other Parties enter into such an agreement, any financial obligations taken on
by an Obligated Party shall be the sole responsibility of the Obligated Party. Nothing in this section 8.8
shall limit the Parties’ abilities to enter into other forms of cost-sharing agreements not mentioned in
this section 8.8.
8.9. Dispute Resolution. In the event of a dispute arising in connection with the terms of this Agreement
between or among the Parties, the disputing Parties shall first attempt to resolve the dispute through
informal negotiations culminating in a unanimous vote of the Members. If the Members cannot
resolve the dispute within 14 days, the disputing Parties shall submit the dispute to non-binding
mediation by a mediator selected by a Vote of the Members. If the Parties cannot resolve the dispute

through non-binding mediation within 60 days of the date the dispute was submitted to the
mediator, any disputing Party may seek resolution consistent with this Agreement by any
means available at law or in equity.

Page 10 of 19

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

8.4.5.4 Agreements with local governmental or private entities for station access, real property
rights, rights-of -way, and construction, if necessary; and

DRAFT

8.10. No Reimbursement Upon Termination. The Parties agree that they are voluntarily providing their
Contributions in furtherance of the Project without the expectation of reimbursement from any other
Party. If this Agreement is terminated prior to the completion of the Project, no Party shall have a right
to reimbursement of its Contributions actually expended to advance the Project, separately or under the
terms of this Agreement, in an action for unjust enrichment, or through any other method or cause of
action other than through a Separate Agreement setting forth the specific circumstances in which one
or more Parties will be responsible for reimbursing another Party for its Contributions upon the
termination of this Agreement. To avoid any ambiguity or confusion, any such Separate Agreement
shall specify that it is entered into for that purpose and consistent with section 8.8 and this section 8.10
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9
NOTICE
9.1. The Chair shall ensure that email Notice of a meeting is sent to all Members and all consultants invited
to the meeting by the Members within the time periods and including such information as set forth in
Article 5. Notice shall also set forth the agenda for the meeting. A Member’s attendance at any meeting
will constitute a waiver of Notice of such meeting. A Member’s waiver of Notice of a meeting will be
deemed the equivalent of proper Notice.
ARTICLE 10
AMENDMENTS
10.1. This Agreement may only be amended in writing upon approval by each of the Parties. The Chair
shall ensure that a statement of any proposed amendment will accompany the Notice of any regular or
special meetings at which such proposed amendment will be considered.
ARTICLE 11
TRANSFER PLAN
11.1. Upon the request of a Member at any time following the adoption of a Financial Plan or upon a
Vote of the Members at any time, the Members shall work in good faith to develop and adopt a proposed
plan that addresses the potential future transfer of Project-related assets and financial obligations from
one Party to another Party, from one Party to a non-party, or through any other structure the Members
deem appropriate (“Transfer Plan”). No transfer or receipt of assets or financial obligations
contemplated in the Transfer Plan will become effective until approved by each Party who would be
transferring or receiving those assets or financial obligations.
ARTICLE 12
TERMINATION
12.1. This Agreement may be terminated at any time by a Vote of the Members. Each Party shall be
responsible for the portion of JSEOC expenses allocated to it in accordance with this Agreement, and
for all rights and obligations incurred in the name of such Party in connection with the Project through
the date of termination of this Agreement. Each Party shall retain the exclusive right and title to, and
ownership of, any and all pre-existing property or interests owned by or licensed to such Party.

Page 11 of 19

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

4.A.a

DRAFT

4.A.a

13.1. Withdrawal upon Notice. Any Party to this Agreement may withdraw from the Agreement upon
providing at least 90 days written notice to all other Parties. Withdrawal shall not relieve the
withdrawing Party of any financial or legal obligations incurred prior to the date on which the
withdrawing Party provides its notice of withdrawal to the other Parties. Each Party shall retain the
exclusive right and title to, and ownership of, any and all pre-existing property or interests owned by
or licensed to such Party. The Parties shall cooperate in good faith to ensure a smooth transition of
services and responsibilities.
13.2. Impact of Withdrawal on Quorum Requirement. Upon receipt of a withdrawal notice under section
13.1 of this Agreement, the Quorum requirements in section 5.4 and 5.4.2 shall be reduced by one. If
more than one Party withdraws from this Agreement, then the Quorum requirements in sections 5.4 and
5.4.2 shall be reduced by the total number of Parties that have provided notices of withdrawal.
13.3. Impact of Withdrawal on Voting Rights. Upon receipt of a withdrawal notice under section 13.1
of this Agreement, the Member representing the withdrawing Party shall no longer be entitled to vote
on matters considered by the JSEOC nor shall their presence at a JSEOC meeting be considered when
determining whether the JSEOC has approved any matter under its consideration by a Vote of the
Members.
13.4. Impact of Withdrawal on Vote of the Members Definition. If a Party’s withdrawal from this
Agreement results in a total number of Members that is 4 or fewer, a “Vote of the Members” shall
mean the vote of a majority of the Members present and voting, in person, electronically, or a
combination thereof, at a duly convened meeting at which a Quorum is present.
13.5. Recalculation of Weighted Voting Upon Withdrawal. Prior to the next meeting of the JSEOC
immediately following the receipt of a withdrawal notice under section 13.1 of this Agreement, the
Chair shall cause each remaining Party’s weighted voting percentage to be recalculated and update
Exhibit C accordingly. Such recalculation shall include only the Contributions attributable to the
remaining Parties. Disputes regarding the recalculation shall be resolved as set forth in section 6.3.3.
ARTICLE 14
MISCELLANEOUS
14.1. Indemnification Void. Any term included in this Agreement that requires a Party to indemnify or
hold another Party or any third party harmless or requires any Party to agree to binding arbitration shall
be void ab initio.
14.2.

Liability.
14.2.1. No Party shall create an obligation or liability for any other Party. Each Party shall be solely
responsible for claims arising from its acts or omissions and for the acts and omissions of its
elected officials, agents, employees, and contractors in connection with the Project, this
Agreement, or other agreements entered into by the Party.

Page 12 of 19

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

ARTICLE 13
WITHDRAWAL

DRAFT

14.2.2. Liability for claims of injuries to persons or property arising from the negligence of the
Parties shall be controlled and limited by the provisions of the Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act, §§ 24-10-101, et seq., C.R.S.; the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 U.S.C. Pt. VI,
Ch. 171 and 28 U.S.C. § 1346(b), and the State’s risk management statutes, §§ 24-30-1501, et
seq., C.R.S. No term or condition of this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as a
waiver, express or implied, of any of the immunities, rights, benefits, protections, or other
provisions, contained in these statutes.
14.3. Applicable Law. Each Party shall follow the requirements applicable to such Party under law,
regulation, and policy.
14.4. Choice of Law; Venue; and Jurisdiction. Colorado law, and rules and regulations issued pursuant
thereto, shall be applied in the interpretation, execution, and enforcement of this Agreement. Any
provision included or incorporated herein by reference which conflicts with said laws, rules, and
regulations shall be null and void. All suits or actions related to this Agreement shall be filed and
proceedings held in the State of Colorado and exclusive venue shall be in the Colorado state courts
located in the City and County of Denver.
14.5. Confidentiality. Each Party shall keep confidential, and cause its directors, officers. employees,
contractors, subcontractors and agents (each an “Authorized Recipient”) to keep confidential, all
documents, including drafts, information, or data (“Confidential Material”) provided during the
Project process and pursuant to this Agreement, to the extent disclosure is not required by the Colorado
Open Records Act (“CORA”), any other state or federal law, or court order. The Parties may share
Confidential Material only with their respective Authorized Recipients who have a business purpose to
obtain access to Confidential Material. Each Party will provide notice to the other Parties before
disclosing any Confidential Material required to be disclosed by law to any person or entity other than
the Party’s Authorized Recipients. Confidentiality shall not be required for documents, drafts,
information, or data which are subject to disclosure pursuant to CORA, other applicable law, or are, or
subsequently are, made publicly available by a person or entity other than a Party.
14.6. Independent Parties. Except as disclosed by a Party to all other Parties, no Party or any agent or
employee of a Party shall be an agent or employee of any other Party with respect to their obligations
under this Agreement, other than as permitted by separate agreement. No Party shall have the authority,
express or implied, to bind any other Party to any agreement, liability, or understanding. Each Party
may act on its own behalf and for its own benefit without approval from the JSEOC or any other
Member.
14.7. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the Parties’ entire agreement with respect to how
they intend to pursue the Project through the JSEOC.
14.8. Successors. This Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties and their respective successors,
unless binding their successors is otherwise prohibited by law.
14.9. No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties and does not
confer any rights upon any other persons or entities and does not create any third-party beneficiaries.

Page 13 of 19

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

4.A.a

DRAFT

4.A.a

To CDOT:

Colorado Department of Transportation
Attention Executive Director
2829 W. Howard Place
Denver, CO 80204

To CTE:

Colorado Clean Transit Enterprise
Attention: CTE Director
2829 W. Howard Place
Denver, CO 80204

To CTIO:

Colorado Transportation Investment Office
Attention: CTIO Director
2829 W. Howard Place
Denver, CO 80204

To FRPRD:

Front Range Passenger Rail District
Attn: General Manager
2921 W. 38th Ave.
Denver, CO 80211

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

14.10. Notice. All notices and communications under this Agreement shall be provided to the Parties using
the contact information below. A Party may update this information from time to time, in its discretion,
by sending such update to each of the other Parties and without formal amendment of this Agreement.
The Chair shall maintain a contact list with the most recent information and shall make such list
available to any Party upon request.

With a copy to: Nossaman, LLP
1801 California Street, Suite 2400
Denver, CO 8020
To RTD:

Regional Transportation District
Attention: General Manager and CEO
1600 Blake, BLK-21
Denver, Colorado 80202

With a copy to: RTD General Counsel
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake, BLK-21
Denver, Colorado 80202
To the Governor: Office of Economic Development & International Trade
Attention: Lisa Kaufman
1600 Broadway
Denver, CO 80202
With a copy to: Office of Legal Counsel
gov_officeoflegalcounsel@state.co.us

Page 14 of 19

Packet Pg. 18

DRAFT

4.A.a

14.12. Severability. If any provision, or part of a provision, of this Agreement is found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be void or unenforceable, it is the intent of the Partis that such provision and
all other provisions in this Agreement be enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law.
14.13. Counterparts; Signatures. This Agreement may be signed in multiple counterparts, which shall be
valid and binding on the Parties. Original ink and electronic signatures shall be considered equally valid
and binding.
14.14. Survival of Certain Agreement Terms. Any provision of this Agreement that imposes an obligation
on a Party after termination or expiration of this Agreement shall survive the termination or expiration
of this Agreement and shall be enforceable by any Party.
14.15. Effective Date. This Agreement shall become effective 30 days following the date on which it is
executed by the last Party to sign (the “Effective Date”).
[THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

Page 15 of 19

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

14.11. Cooperation. If any third party brings an action against any of the Parties regarding the validity or
operation of this Agreement or the Project, the Parties will reasonably cooperate with each other in any
such litigation, but each Party shall bear its own fees and costs.

DRAFT

4.A.a

SIGNATURES
Each person signing this Contract represents and warrants that they are duly authorized to execute this
Contract and to bind the Party authorizing their signature.
Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

THE STATE OF COLORADO
Jared S. Polis, Governor
____________________
By:
Date: __________________
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION OF COLORADO
Terry Hart, Chair
____________________
By:
Date: __________________
THE CLEAN TRANSIT ENTERPRISE
Cris Jones, Chair
____________________
By:
Date: __________________
THE COLORADO HIGH PERFORMANCE TRANSPORTATION ENTERPRISE,
dba the Colorado Transportation Investment Office
Piper Darlington, Director
____________________,
By:
Date: __________________
THE FRONT RANGE PASSENGER RAIL DISTRICT
Christine Breit, Interim General Manager
____________________,
By:
Date: __________________
THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer
____________________
By:
Date: __________________

Page 16 of 19

Packet Pg. 20

DRAFT

4.A.a

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

EXHIBIT A
PROPOSED ROUTE*

*Exact station locations within these municipalities still to be determined in some cases.

Page 17 of 19

Packet Pg. 21

4.A.a

DRAFT
EXHIBIT B
WEIGHTED VOTING

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

Upon the request of any Member, a weighted vote shall be taken. The voting rights of each Party for
the weighted vote shall be equal to 1 plus the quotient of the Contribution of the Party set forth in
Exhibit C, as may be amended from time to time, divided by the sum of the Contributions of all
Parties set forth in Exhibit C, as may be amended from time to time.
[1 + (Party Contribution /All Party Contributions)]

Page 18 of 19

Packet Pg. 22

4.A.a

DRAFT
EXHIBIT C
CONTRIBUTIONS
The Parties’ Contributions for the Project are set forth below.

Contribution

Description

CDOT
CTE
CTIO
FRPRD
RTD
The State

Weighted Voting
Percentage

Attachment: 20250612 - Draft Joint Service IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

Party

Page 19 of 19

Packet Pg. 23

4.A.b

GENERAL ASSEMBLY
RTD Board of Directors
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202

State Capitol
Denver, 80203

June 2, 2025
Dear Directors of the RTD Board,
We are writing to express our strong support for continued investment in safe and reliable transit across
the State and the Denver Metro area, and to urge timely action to establish passenger rail service from
Denver to Fort Collins.
In recent years, the General Assembly has taken significant steps to bolster transit infrastructure, creating
new and sustained revenue streams to support the expansion of transit, an essential strategy for achieving
Colorado’s climate goals. With these new revenue streams, the State can partner with local transit
agencies to achieve our mutual goals of providing safe, reliable transit to Coloradans and improving the
region's air quality.
New state transit funding was established in SB21-260 and is generating $59 million over five years to
help public transit agencies transition to low- and zero-emission fleets. In particular, the State welcomes a
partnership with RTD and local transit agencies to transition to low-emission fleets. More recently,
SB24-230, created a new fee on oil and gas extraction that may provide an estimated $50 million annually
to RTD, designed to incentivize expanded transit service for either new service or newly increased
frequencies of existing routes. This legislation also includes an additional dedicated 20% set aside,
estimated to be $20 million annually to support the completion of the Northwest Rail in the form of joint
service and N Line corridor.
Additional transit support came with SB24-184, which directed RTD to prioritize the completion of
passenger rail on the Northwest Rail and N Line. This bill also created a sustainable revenue stream of
approximately $60 million annually for state-sponsored rail service, initially focused on establishing
passenger rail on the NW line and Mountain Rail. SB24-184 clearly established legislative intent to
deliver passenger rail service through collaboration between RTD, the State, and FRPR to ensure efficient
use of taxpayer and fee payer monies by having one operator and one access agreement to deliver this
service. We were pleased to receive the March 1 report on joint service, which concluded that there are
sufficient existing resources to commence service by January 2029.
Moreover, SB25-161 builds on these commitments, aligning RTD’s planning with State climate goals,
promoting budget transparency, and reinforcing the State’s priority to complete unfinished FasTracks
projects. It also calls for a comprehensive study of debt service and Certificates of Participation (COPs),

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: General Assembly Letters of Support (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

STATE OF COLORADO

4.A.b

We understand that all governing boards are considering entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) with CDOT, CTE, CTIO, FRPR, and the Governor’s Office to begin initial negotiations with BNSF
to obtain a verified infrastructure list and access agreement. We view adoption of the IGA as a critical
first step in forming a unified governing body that can establish a single operator and negotiate a unified
access agreement with BNSF. This collaboration is vital to obtain necessary information on costs, terms,
and access conditions. We strongly support this effort, as such interagency partnerships are essential to
achieving efficiencies and delivering on the promises of expanded passenger rail.
We urge you to move forward with the IGA and take all necessary actions to advance joint service along
the Northern Front Range, from Denver to Longmont, and now Fort Collins, with the goal of initiating
service by January 1, 2029, as outlined in SB24-184.
The General Assembly stands ready to continue partnering with RTD and FRPR to deliver on the
long-standing vision of providing fast, clean, and reliable rail service to the people of Colorado, who have
long invested in this future.

Sincerely,

Senator Judy Amabile
Senate District 18

Representative Andrew
Boesenecker
House District 53

Representative William
Lindstedt
House District 33

Senator Janice Marchman
Senate District 15

Representative Kyle Brown
House District 12

Representative Karen
McCormick
House District 11

Representative Junie Joseph
House District 10

Representative Lesley Smith
House District 49

Senator Katie Wallace
Senate District 17

Senator Faith Winter
Senate District 25

Hon. Stephen Fenberg
Former President of the Senate

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: General Assembly Letters of Support (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

and mandates robust public engagement in communities awaiting the delivery of unfinished FasTracks
projects.

4.A.b

GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Board of Directors
Front Range Passenger Rail District

State Capitol
Denver, 80203

June 2, 2025
Dear Directors of the Front Range Passenger Rail District,
We are writing to express our strong support for continued investment in safe and reliable transit across
the State and the Denver Metro area, and to urge timely action to establish passenger rail service from
Denver to Fort Collins.
In recent years, the General Assembly has taken significant steps to bolster transit infrastructure, creating
new and sustained revenue streams to support the expansion of transit, an essential strategy for achieving
Colorado’s climate goals. With these new revenue streams, the State can partner with local transit
agencies to achieve our mutual goals of providing safe, reliable transit to Coloradans and improving the
region's air quality.
New state transit funding was established in SB21-260 and is generating $59 million over five years to
help public transit agencies transition to low- and zero-emission fleets. More recently, SB24-230, created
a new fee on oil and gas extraction that may provide an estimated $50 million annually to RTD, designed
to incentivize expanded transit service for either new service or newly increased frequencies of existing
routes. This legislation also includes an additional dedicated 20% set aside, estimated to be $20 million
annually to support the completion of the Northwest Rail in the form of joint service and N Line corridor.
Additional transit support came with SB24-184, which directed RTD to prioritize the completion of
passenger rail on the Northwest Rail and N Line. SB24-184 established legislative intent to deliver
passenger rail service through collaboration between RTD, the State, and FRPR to ensure efficient use of
taxpayer and fee payer monies by having one operator and one access agreement to deliver this service.
This bill also created a sustainable revenue stream of approximately $60 million annually for
state-sponsored rail service, initially focused on establishing passenger rail on the NW line and Mountain
Rail. We were pleased to receive the March 1 report on Joint Service, which concluded that there are
sufficient existing resources to commence service by January 2029.
We understand that all governing boards are considering entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) with CDOT, CTE, CTIO, FRPR, and the Governor’s Office to begin initial negotiations with BNSF
to obtain a verified infrastructure list and access agreement. We view adoption of the IGA as a critical
first step in forming a unified governing body that can establish a single operator and negotiate a unified
access agreement with BNSF. This collaboration is vital to obtain necessary information on costs, terms,

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: General Assembly Letters of Support (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

STATE OF COLORADO

4.A.b

and access conditions. We strongly support this effort, as such interagency partnerships are essential to
achieving efficiencies and delivering on the promises of expanded passenger rail.

The General Assembly stands ready to continue partnering with RTD and FRPR to deliver on the
long-standing vision of providing fast, clean, and reliable rail service to the people of Colorado, who have
long invested in this future.

Sincerely,

Senator Judy Amabile
Senate District 18

Representative Andrew
Boesenecker
House District 53

Representative Kyle Brown
House District 12

Representative Junie Joseph
House District 10

Representative William
Lindstedt
House District 33

Senator Janice Marchman
Senate District 15

Representative Karen
McCormick
House District 11

Senator Katie Wallace
Senate District 17

Senator Faith Winter
Senate District 25

Hon. Stephen Fenberg
Former President of the Senate

Representative Lesley Smith
House District 49

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: General Assembly Letters of Support (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

We urge you to move forward with the IGA and take all necessary actions to advance joint service along
the Northern Front Range, from Denver to Longmont, and now Fort Collins, with the goal of initiating
service by January 1, 2029, as outlined in SB24-184.

4.A.c

James Tylick
AVP Passenger Operations

BNSF Railway

BNSF
Railway
2600 Lou
Menk Company
Drive
Fort Worth, TX 76131
james.tylick@bnsf.com

Ms. Chrissy Breit
Interim General Manager
Front Range Passenger Rail District
1756 West 36th Avenue
Denver, CO 80211
Ms. Debra Johnson
General Manager & CEO
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Ms. Shoshana Lew
Executive Director
Colorado Department of Transportation
2829 W Howard Place
Denver, CO 80204
Dear Ms. Breit, Ms. Johnson, and Ms. Lew:
BNSF Railway appreciates the collaborative efforts underway to establish an Interagency
Agreement (IGA) among your organizations to coordinate planning for potential passenger rail
service along Colorado’s Front Range.
As you know, BNSF has worked closely with your teams to evaluate the feasibility of passenger
rail along our Front Range and Pikes Peak Subdivisions. We previously partnered with the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) to assess infrastructure needs for potential commuter
service between Westminster and Longmont. We have also engaged with the Front Range
Passenger Rail District (FRPRD) and the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
regarding intercity service concepts along the same corridor.
We understand that service expectations and operating characteristics for potential passenger rail
have evolved over time. In this context, we view the IGA and the concept of a unified
approach—one operator, one access agreement, and one voice—as a constructive step toward
aligning public agency efforts and streamlining engagement with BNSF and other stakeholders.
As always, BNSF will evaluate any new passenger rail proposal through the lens of our
longstanding Passenger Rail Principles, which are attached to this letter. These principles are
essential to ensuring that any potential service is compatible with our existing and future freight
operations, which are critical to our customers and the economy.

1
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: BNSF letter regarding Colorado IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

June 17, 2025

4.A.c

In summary, BNSF recognizes the value of an IGA as a practical and forward-thinking solution
for coordinating interagency efforts. We are committed to continued engagement with all
stakeholders to ensure the long-term success of rail in Colorado.

Attachment: BNSF letter regarding Colorado IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

Sincerely,

James Tylick
AVP Passenger Operations
CC: French Thompson, General Director, BNSF Railway

2
Packet Pg. 29

4.A.c

Passenger Principles

•

Any passenger rail operation cannot degrade BNSF’s freight service, negatively affect BNSF’s freight
customers or BNSF’s ability to provide them with service.

•

BNSF must be compensated for any and all costs incurred in providing passenger rail service and
make a reasonable return for providing the service.

•

Capital investments necessary for passenger rail service are the responsibility of the public, including
investments for future capacity which is potentially more expensive, especially in urbanized areas.

•

BNSF will not incur any liability for passenger rail operations that it would not have but for those
operations. These operations are provided by BNSF primarily as a public service; the relatively
modest compensation BNSF receives does not begin to justify assuming the significant liability
associated with passenger service.

•

Studies of how passenger rail service might be provided must take into account not only the current
freight traffic levels, but projected freight traffic growth.

•

Investments made for passenger rail projects must not result in BNSF incurring a higher tax burden.
Property improvements should not become part of our tax base; materials used should be exempt
from all sales and use taxes, etc. or BNSF must be made whole for any increased tax burden.

•

BNSF must retain operating control of rail facilities used for passenger rail service. All dispatching,
maintenance and construction must be done under the control of BNSF. Passenger stations, parking
lots and other non-rail facilities may be publicly owned and operated.

•

Studies must reflect BNSF’s actual operating conditions and cost structures. For example,
construction work estimates must reflect our labor contract costs, schedules cannot assume that we
will not operate any freight trains during peak commuter periods, etc.

•

BNSF will limit passenger rail operations to the passenger schedules initially agreed upon and for
which the capital improvement plan has been designed. Future expansions will have to undergo the
same analysis and provide any required capital improvements before schedules can be altered,
service added, or stations added.

•

Improvements must include grade crossing protection and intertrack fencing as required to minimize
the risk of accidents, due to liability and service interruption concerns.

BNSF’s relationship with Amtrak intercity passenger service is governed by Federal regulation
supplemented by an operating contract between BNSF and Amtrak. Please direct questions about
passenger rail service on BNSF Railway to www.bnsf.com/about-bnsf/contact-us/ or the passenger rail
sponsoring agency.
Includes revisions from August 2007 and February 2023

3
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: BNSF letter regarding Colorado IGA (5150 : Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement)

BNSF is willing to cooperate on passenger rail studies and provide federal, state, and local officials with
information. Where passenger rail service is proposed on a minimally used line that BNSF is willing to
sell, BNSF shall be paid fair market value for the property. Where passenger rail service is proposed on a
line BNSF intends to continue owning and to be jointly used for passenger and freight use, the following
principles apply:

4.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
System Advertising Contract Termination

June 24, 2025
Board Meeting Date:
June 24, 2025

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her delegate to execute all
documents necessary to terminate RTD’s System Advertising Contract with Lamar Transit for an amount
not to exceed $2,534,655.15.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Stuart Summers, Chief Communications and Engagement Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
For more than 20 years, RTD has supported an advertising program that generates revenue by
strategically using the agency’s revenue vehicles and other public-facing assets. RTD’s contract with
Lamar began in January 2022, and it included on-vehicle advertising, as well as a new digital advertising
program. Under the 10-year base agreement, Lamar pays RTD a “minimum annual guarantee” (MAG) in
advance. In addition to the MAG, RTD is entitled to receive 60% of any advertising revenue that is
generated in excess of the MAG. The MAG incrementally increases throughout the duration of the
contract. For example, in 2024, Lamar paid $5.6 million to RTD, and the payment increased to $6
million in 2025.
In addition to generating revenue through on-vehicle advertising, the contract requires Lamar to install
approximately 300 digital advertising displays, 60 digital kiosks, and 30 LED wall displays, within the
first three years of the contract. RTD retains a share-of-voice (i.e., a measurement model within
advertising that measures the percentage of media spending by a company/agency compared to the total
media expenditure for the product, service or category in market) on the digital screens for customer
information and agency promotions.
DISCUSSION
RTD and Lamar have mutually agreed to terminate and unwind the 10-year contract early, contingent
upon Board approval. If the termination is authorized by the Board, it would become effective December
1, 2025.
As part of the wind-down, RTD will pay Lamar for the amortized value of all assets it will obtain upon
termination in the amount of approximately $2,010,000. RTD will then assume ownership of all digital
signs and screens that have been deployed across the system. Additionally, due to the contract ending

Packet Pg. 31

4.B

prior to December 21, 2025, RTD will return to Lamar a prorated portion of the 2025 MAG for the final
month of the contract termination, which is approximately $500,000.
RTD will use the five-month wind-down period to launch a public solicitation structured for a sustainable
path to utilizing its assets to generate advertising income. If the solicitation is successful, it is currently
anticipated that a new contract will come before the Board for consideration and approval prior to the
end of 2025.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact is $2,534,655.15 and will be funded from the existing Lamar revenue accounts.

Prepared by:
Michelle Merz-Hutchinson, Deputy General Counsel
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 32

