2025-06-24
Special Board Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll now call the Tuesday 24th special Board meeting to order. Were convened as of
3:05. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you're recognized to speak. I will now call
the roll. Director Benker. Not yet. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick, excused absence. Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha? Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10 directors present. Excuse
me, 11. Right, and 4 absent. And we do have a quorum.

So I'd like to now open it up to public comment to anyone who'd like to address the Board. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to be
contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com.
All right, and our first public speaker is Audrey DeBarros.
AUDREY DEBARROS: Good afternoon. My name is Audrey DeBarros. I'm the Executive Director of
Commuting Solutions. We are the transportation management organization for the Northwest Metro
region, and that's a proud role that we have served for over 27 years.
Commuting Solutions works very closely with the Northwest Mayors & Commissioners Coalition. And
together, we have focused on advancing regional multi-modal transportation investments that connect the
communities of the city of Boulder, Boulder County, City of Longmont, Town of Superior, City of Louisville,
City and County of Broomfield, City of Westminster, City of Lafayette, and the Town of Erie. We have
collaborated with the RTD throughout that history.
And together, we have made significant accomplishments, including passage of the RTD FasTracks
ballot issue, implementation of US 36 BRT service, the Northwest Area Mobility Study, constructing
Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station, beginning the first six miles of Northwest Rail, constructing
Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station, and constructing the end-of-line station at the City of
Longmont, and most recently completing the RTD FasTracks Peak Service Northwest Rail Study. We
appreciate the support of General Manager Johnson and RTD staff for completing that study, which was
really transformative in that it analyzed the possibility of beginning starter rail service, and it restarted
conversations with the Burlington Northern. The Northwest MCC and Commuting Solutions also deeply
appreciates the work of our state legislature and the governor's office to advance legislation for
passenger rail service expansion in Colorado, including requirements for Northwest Rail completion by
the RTD.
And I'm here today representing both the Northwest Mayors & Commissioners Coalition and Commuting
Solutions to ask you for your vote of support to join our state partners in the Joint Service plan. Your vote
is expressly important to our region. It's very symbolic. FasTracks is not a fully functioning system for the
entire Denver region.
And without completion of Northwest Rail, our region is left unwhole. We are eager to advance creative
solutions to bring passenger rail to our region and to Colorado. And the IGA is the first step forward to
engage the Burlington Northern together and to consider the long-awaited rail service for our region
through the communities of Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder, and Longmont.
I just want to say thank you for your service on the RTD Board of Directors. I know it's not easy. And I
want to thank General Manager Johnson for your steadfast and bold leadership of the agency. We look
forward to continuing our partnership with RTD, and we ask for your support of the IGA today. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Audrey. Our next speaker is Richard Bamber.
RICHARD BAMBLER: Good afternoon. I'm Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. I'm also your
friendly railroad engineer. I don't have to dress up anymore. They now make a Teddy bear.

So I joined RTD as a contractor in 2011. We'd just broken ground on the A Line, and I was with the
agency coming in. I think we were going to the offices, which is now the TIAA-CREF building, for five
years-- what is that, up to 2016.
During that time, we opened the W Line. We broke ground on the B, the G. Financing packages came
together to build the R. That one, we had to rip the plans up for Peoria Station and redo them, which was
a pleasure because it meant more transit. The N line-- as a group of program manager engineers, we
could be forgiven for thinking that we were going to spend the next 20 years building FasTracks,
completing the plan.
And then sometime around the A Line opening-- I forget whether it was before or after. We were all
hauled into a meeting. It was, like, hundreds of us.
And somebody in finance basically said, the money's run out. Beyond the Eagle P3 and the N Line and
the R, there will be no more, or very little, expansion. It was the first time the figure 2042 was quoted, the
idea being that RTD must pay the debts and there'd be nothing else.
And a dream died for a lot of us in a way that day. It meant that me personally, it was off to New York and
other places, which was fun. But we would have far rather stayed in Denver to build the build out.
So we stand today after long months, a lot of effort, where we're trying to get that dream in part back. The
IGA is still going to need-- in the arrangements, there's a lot that's going to be settled, and not everything
today-- financial plans. You'll hear good comments on the weighted voting, which I concur with. It's quite a
complicated issue and I don't have the time here. But I urge people to vote yes, get us into another step,
and get us back to building FasTracks, and back to building the transportation system this metro region
deserves.
Finally, on the second item of the agenda-- which you probably gathered, we wouldn't let that go. I'm done
with riding buses where I can't see out the windows. I'm done being told irrelevant messages when all I
want to know is, where is my bus going from and is it late or where is it? So I welcome the cancelation of
the contract with Lamar. We need to redefine our relationship with the advertisers.
We're not against the idea of advertising on the system. We just think the current relationship needs to be
fundamentally changed. And a new advertising contract gives you the golden opportunity to do that.
Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you Richard, and thank you, GDT. Before I call onto our next speaker-- my
apologies for not saying this earlier, I would like to say that you are being recorded when you give your
public comments. You will have up to three minutes to speak. And if you could kindly state your name
while speaking, that'd be perfect. All right, our next speaker, Jack Rosenthal.
JACK ROSENTHAL: Good afternoon. My name is Jack Rosenthal. I'm an RTD rider in Boulder County. I
would like to second all the support from Audrey and Richard on the IGA. I'm here to talk about the
system advertising contract.
I would like to share my support to terminate RTD system advertising contract with Lamar. I know it's a
difficult decision, and I know it's best for RTD. And it's going to enable us to create rider-oriented
advertising policies going forward.

So for example, advertisement window wraps cover the bus windows and degrade the customer
experience. But they also present a safety and security issue, as riders may alight through the exit doors,
and it can be difficult to see what hazards may be outside. As another example, advertisements on digital
displays routinely block important information for RTD customers, such as routes and departures times.
And those should always come first.
And these ads have brought in minimal revenue for RTD, and yet significantly degrade the customer
experience. Finding a vendor who is committed to advertising which enhances the rider experience is
critical. Canceling this contract with Lamar will enable us to make the right policies going forward, and
help us increase the ridership of the system. I ask the Board today to support this contract termination.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Jack. Our next speaker is Joe Meyer.
JOE MEYER: Thank you, and good afternoon, Chair Bouquet and members of the Board. My name is
Joe Meyer, and I'm from the RTD Citizens Advisory committee here to comment on the Joint Service IGA.
The Citizens Advisory Committee, or CAC, sent the Board a letter previously containing questions and
comments regarding Joint Service on the Northwest Corridor. We support the Board voting to execute the
IGA for the Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee. However, we request that the Board thoroughly
evaluate the potential impacts to RTD's core transit services and other outstanding capital projects, and
take any steps possible to protect existing service and protect the funding needed for completion of other
FasTracks projects.
We recognize that much of the written comment that we provided earlier is more relevant to the financial
plan than to the currently considered IGA. However, we believe that the scale of RTD's estimated
financial contributions to the Joint Service require careful consideration prior to taking this first step of
entering into the IGA. In prior presentations and documentation, RTD has been assumed to financially
contribute roughly half of the project costs with a current estimate for annual contributions from RTD of
approximately $40 million a year.
With the currently proposed weighted vote structure, a contribution of 50% of project costs would shift
RTD's voting power on the JSEOC from approximately 16% to approximately 21% We would remind the
Board that this increase in vote share of five percentage points comes at an estimated annual contribution
cost roughly equivalent to three times the annual operating cost of the Flatiron Flyer service in order to
provide a subsidy of about $160 per boarding on this train. We would also point out that additional
uncounted contributions by RTD to support Joint Service, namely increased bus service to Front Range
Passenger Rail stations, may also be required or expected without necessarily contributing to a stronger
vote share.
The CAC recognizes the importance of RTD following through on this promise to voters. And we see the
IGA as the right first step. We support this Board voting to execute this IGA.
We just also request that RTD work to ensure that its voice in the decision-making process and the
service that it receives for its contributions are commensurate with the financial contributions that RTD is
going to be asked to contribute. Even though that ask is not coming at this stage, with this being step one,
I think it's really important to set the framework to know what you're getting into going forward, and make
sure that it does not take away from our community's existing transit service and other promised projects.
Thank you, and I look forward to the following discussions and the vote.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Joe. Before I take our online participants, I would like to state, for the
sake of the record, Treasurer Benker has joined us. Welcome. All right, Mr. Kroll, anyone online for public
comments?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Bouquet This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time,
I see four hands raised, the first of which is from Gary Sprung.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Gary, you're recognized.
GARY SPRUNG: Hi. I am Gary Sprung, and I live in Boulder. Like many people who live northwest of
Denver, I am frustrated that the promised Northwest line has not been built. We have been paying taxes
for FasTracks for more than 20 years. But unlike many of my region, I do not blame RTD for the shortfall.
In September 2023, The Denver Post and Boulder Daily Camera published my guest editorial titled "Who
Is to Blame for the Northwest Rail Debacle? Not RTD." In it, I argued that the economic changes after the
2004 vote were not predictable and that RTD had done nothing wrong.
I noted that RTD has built eight successful rail lines. "Let's leave RTD's competency out of the debate," I
wrote. "They have had no major scandals. They've done OK."
After that publication, the situation changed. The legislature came up with two new fees that provide
money for the Northwest line, as well as new money for public transit agencies in general, including RTD.
Then the governor, through his staff, came up with the Joint Service proposal, which offers a positive
change to the situation.
I ask you to support this Joint Service proposal. It is a bold and creative solution to solving your big
political problem-- the unfinished nature of the Northwest line. RTD's standing with the public northwest of
Denver depends on initiation of some level of rail service on the Northwest line. If you were to decline to
declined to participate in this partnership, then the public would have ample reason to blame RTD. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Gary. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Darcy Kitching.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Darcy, you're recognized.
DARCY KITCHING: Thank you. Thank you, Directors, for the opportunity to speak today. I appreciate it.
My name is Darcy Kitching. I am the Executive Director of the Boulder Chamber Transportation
Connections.
We are the transportation management organization for the city of Boulder and a sister organization to
Commuting Solutions, for which Audrey has already spoken. We work directly with Boulder business
communities supporting employers and workers in Boulder to provide sustainable commuting options that
help reduce single-occupant vehicle trips and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We serve the residents
and workers in the Boulder Junction neighborhood with EcoPasses, among others, in the city of Boulder.
I speak today to urge your support for the Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement. We were grateful
to have taken part in the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study, and we eagerly anticipate the development
of Northwest Rail to bring much-needed rail service to Boulder and to the Northwest region. We anticipate

that this service will complement existing bus rapid transit service and help build out FasTracks, as
proposed and envisioned by RTD 20 years ago. We appreciate your consideration of this and are eager
to support the development of Northwest Rail. Thank you so much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Darcy. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have Mark Cathcart.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mark, you're recognized.
MARK CATHCART: Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Mark Cathcart. I live in Louisville, Colorado. I
understand how difficult it must be to run a transportation district in a society so dominated by cars and
roads. And I'd like to thank you for your service.
Secondly, I appreciate how difficult it can be to work in a highly political and diverse environment. As you
can hear, I'm not from here. I grew up in the UK. And I've lived in New York for seven years, in Austin,
Texas, for 10 years, and now Colorado for nine years.
I'd like to ask you today for your vote for the Front Range Passenger Rail service. I've taken high-speed
rail all over the world as part of my business travel, including from Moscow to St Petersburg in Russia 12
years ago. The services currently proposed for Front Range Passenger Rail is actually far from ideal.
However, it's becoming increasingly vital that we make a start on serious rail in Colorado, especially in the
Denver suburbs and cities.
Most importantly, though, I returned from New York to the London suburbs in 1987. I commuted daily into
London for four years as a senior engineer and leader of a year 2000 banking project for IBM. During that
time, I was blown away by the planning and evolution of the Thameslink rail line. It was initially based on
diesel-based cars, big diesel-based engines from just Bedford to St. Pancras, a journey of just some 50
miles.
Over the next two decades, the services transitioned to electric trains. And the peak time services have
moved from four to often 9 cars. The service itself now goes right through London. It goes under the
Thames, and it serves to the south of London all the way to the coast at Brighton. So it's over doubled in
distance.
What was really impressive about it is that the speed and frequency generated volume. That volume of
passengers has continued to increase. And at the same time, the economic development around stations
on the line from Bedford to London and beyond has been amazing, to the point where the speed and
frequency of the line make it more than reasonable to take the train not into London, not down to the
coast, to the seaside, which was part of the allure of doing it in the first place, but to take it two stops to a
restaurant.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mark, if you could wrap up your comments.
MARK CATHCART: I am. Thank you. Yes, so the important thing here is that we must make a start. And
again, I'd ask you for your support and vote for the Front Range Passenger Rail service as currently
envisaged. Thank you very. much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mark. Our next speaker, Mr. Kroll?

JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Kay Palmer Marsh.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Kay, you're recognized.
JACK KROLL: Kay, if you are speaking, we cannot hear you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Kroll, are there any other speakers?
JACK KROLL: It looks like Kay just connected to audio. There's a notification. Kay, can you try starting
your comments now? No, I think, Chair Bouquet, you might invite Kay Palmer Marsh to submit their
comments in writing or return for the regular Board meeting at 5:30 to provide their comments. We have
no further comments or commenters in the queue at this time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Yeah, due to technical issues, Kay, if you could submit your comments
via writing. Or of course, you're more than welcome to show up again at 5:30 for a regularly scheduled
Board meeting to submit comments as well. No other comments online, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: That's correct. We have no further comments online. You all did receive a plethora of
letters that I would be happy to provide a synopsis of now, for the record.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Any other speakers in person? Excellent. Well, with that being said, I will now close
this portion of public-JACK KROLL: Chair Bouquet, if I may just read the letters into the record.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, yes. Of course.
JACK KROLL: Sorry, I got a little in front of you there. So there were a total of 10 letters submitted
specifically in support of the IGA. Those were from the Northwest Mayors & County Commissioners,
Commuting Solutions, Colorado Passenger Rail Association, and then individuals Kathy Partridge,
Richard Bamber, Elvira Ramos, Nadine Lester, Greater Denver Transit, CoPIRG, DSP, [? Sweep, ?]
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, SDIR, and Conservation Colorado also submitted a joint letter in
support of the IGA.
And then Citizens Advisory Committee, as Mr. Meyer presented on earlier, submitted a letter in support of
the IGA, but did also include some additional questions for the Board to consider with respect to the
project overall. And then there were a total of seven letters submitted just in support of the project for
Northwest Rail. And those letters actually came in after the conclusion of the May meeting. So I'm going
to add them to the record for this meeting, even though they were mostly in respect to the Northwest Rail
project overall, and not specifically for the IGA. And those are from Maura Daniels, Lori Hewitt, EJ Stone,
Suzanne Kloster, Marcia Minke, and Sue Cruz.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Those letters will be added to the record.
Now with that being said, I will now close this portion of public comment. Thank you, all.
All right, there are two recommended actions on the agenda for this afternoon. The first action is for our
Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement. And that is for the Board of Directors to authorize the
General Manager and CEO or her delegate to execute the attached intergovernmental agreement for the
Joint Service Executive Committee oversight. Do I have a motion?

LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Director Benker as the mover. And I have Guissinger as the second. Before
we jump into further conversation on this topic, I will ask Melanie Snyder, General Counsel, to kindly
share the latest information on this IGA, and how we got to this version before us. Ms Snyder, can you
provide us with an update on the process and your thoughts on the agreement so far?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Debra Johnson, General Manager, Chief Executive Officer. I will be presenting this
item before this body this afternoon. So by way of background, as most of you are aware, Senate Bill 184
basically provided authority for parties to work collaboratively, as we have heard from commenters, in
reference to working in tandem to create a vehicle, no pun intended, to ensure that we could provide
mobility options along the Northwest Corridor.
Over the course of the past year, I have had the opportunity, along with yourself, Mr. Chair, as well as our
previous Chair of the Board, to work with entities representing Colorado Department of Transportation,
Clean Transit Enterprise, Colorado High Performance Transportation Enterprise, Front Range Passenger
Rail District, of which I do serve as an ex officio member, as well as the Governor's Office with that
representation. And in doing so, we have worked in tandem to identify the most prudent course of action
relative to memorializing our efforts with bringing, or exploring I should say, as well, the options for service
along the Front Range by capitalizing on efficiencies.
More so, I believe it's prudent to state that with RTD's work, as we heard from Mr. Burrows, leveraging the
Northwest Rail Peak Feasibility Study that we commenced in 2023 and rounded out in the fall of 2024,
really laid the foundation regarding what might be optimal. And keep in mind the correspondence that had
been shared with the representation from Front Range Passenger Rail, specifically the former General
Manager and the current Chair of the Front Range Passenger Rail District, and that we would ensure that
we leverage the information that we had garnered through our Northwest Peak Feasibility Study in order
to move this collaborative effort forward.
The reason why I point that out is that the IGA that you have before you for consideration, basically will
memorialize what we have been doing-- when I say "we," the six parties that I reference, over the course
of the past year, in that we will be able to work as a unit. The reason why that is so important, keeping in
mind that the railway that we would want to utilize for any exploration generation of rail service, i.e.,
passenger rail service, would be that of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railway, and keeping in mind
that class I railroad, who is for profit entity, wants to ensure that they're working with one entity. This IGA
will enable me, as the representative of RTD in serving as a principal, as memorialized in the document
before you this afternoon for consideration.
It's important to note that this Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee that will be memorialized with
the adoption of the IGA is solely to make recommendations and decisions with respect to the project-keeping in mind that there would be a governance structure, however, that does not usurp this body's
authority to carry out their fiduciary responsibilities that has been granted to you all by virtue of the RDD
Act. One thing that's notable, recognizing that you have had several briefings, I heard you loud and

clearly, as well as General Counsel, and we have been working with the principals. And what is before
you basically amplifies what the Board's desire was relative to the voting component. We stand now at a
supermajority plus one that would give this Joint Service executive Oversight Committee the ability to
ensure that there were five votes out of six, recognizing that the other six principal entities that I
referenced are represented by 4 entities within the state of Colorado.
So with that, I will yield the floor. I do believe that this is a good first step. I want to reinforce that this is
imperative, as we move forward, to discern what might be this agency's financial contributions, because
without this iterative step, we wouldn't be able to work with BNSF to discern what the path forward is.
It would give us a better understanding about financial commitments. And this is a step that will enable us
to ensure that we weren't just talking about variables, but actually signing amounts to those variables. So
with that, Mr. Chair, I will yield the floor. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, GMCO Johnson. All right, Directors, it is our turn. Any
questions or comments in regards to this IGA? Please raise your hand either virtually or in person.
Treasurer Benker. I'm shocked you have a question or comment.
[CHUCKLES]
KAREN BENKER: Surprise, surprise. First of all, I'm sorry I got here late. I was stuck in a traffic jam on I25. There was a crash and traffic was going nowhere. So I was sitting there, trying to figure out how I was
going to make it to this meeting and make this very, very important vote.
I took a few detours. I have no idea what districts I went through. But thankfully I made it here.
But I guess I mentioned this primarily because folks living in the northwest area have very few options in
making it to Denver and to other parts of the RTD district. Pretty much it's I-25 and I-25 is just getting
more and more and more crowded, and once there's an accident, everything just shuts down. It would be
nice to have a train. So there's a couple of things. I just wanted to remind our Board again, because I
know you're probably all pretty much aware of the arguments that I make as to why this is a fabulous idea
build a train to Longmont.
Over the past 20-plus years, the communities along the Northwest Rail line have paid RTD $650 million
just in FasTracks monies. And we continue every day to keep paying that tax, and will for many, many,
many years. And so far, our area has not received too much from RTD for all of those dollars that we
have sent to Denver.
We have been waiting many years, impatiently. And many of us in the various communities have been
pushing. And we've also got a couple of mayors along the line that have been very upset with RTD and
are waiting for this kind of service, and also additional service, I should add.
And then also, just to remind everyone, the state legislature has been very good to us over the past
couple of years, and they have provided two new revenue sources for us to tap into. One is on rental cars
and one is on oil and gas. And when you add up all those dollars together, it comes out to approximately
a new revenue stream of $174 million a year, every year.
Now, is the $174 million all for RTD in this particular project? No, but a good chunk of it is. And so I do
feel there's some brand-new revenue on the table.

And I think this is a great opportunity. We've got a lot of partners working with us to try to make this
project come true. And now's a good time to go forward. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For those of you who don't know, Treasurer Benker has
ownership rights to buildthetrain.com if anyone would like to buy it. I wanted to specifically call out our
staff for negotiating a good IGA.
I think the suggestion by Secretary Nicholson on 2/3 supermajority was excellent. I think it was well
received by the other parties. FasTracks has some great legacies.
There was the beginning of a true regional system. The A Line in particular is just a fantastic asset. But it
also has left some broken promises in its wake.
Northwest Corridor is one of them. The NGL and Southwest Corridor also all have sections that have not
been completed. And those voters all have the same view that you've heard the Northwest Corridor
voters raise today. This IGA is an imperative first step, whether or not you're going to vote yes or no on
the final package. I hope to vote yes, but there's a lot of work to be done.
We are missing a single line item that's remained a mystery, and that is the price for using the BNSF
corridor. I urge everybody to help us move forward so we have this number. Once we have that, we can
make a decision on the best way to fulfill those promises.
Again, I sincerely hope that we get to a place where the budget is feasible. We have to respect the other
corridors and work with them too. But I commend our staff and the state and Front Range Passenger Rail
teams for doing this. And I have great faith in the excellent negotiating team that the governor's office has
in working with BNSF going forward. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So first off, just want to echo everything that First Vice Chair O'Keefe
said, and specifically the incredible work that our negotiating team did in getting us an IGA that I think
those of us who have questions about this project can be comfortable with. And I was really, genuinely
impressed by where we ended up.
I just want to call out two people that I think deserve some recognition in this moment for the amount of
work that was required to get us here. And that's Diane Barrett and Branden Shafer on the governor's
team. It was a Herculean amount of effort to bring this to this point, and a very, very thankless job on their
part. And I think the fact that we are even considering this at this point is due to a lot of folks who went
through a lot of stress to get us to where we are here.
I'm exactly where Patrick is. I don't know if I'm going to be able to support this. It's going to depend a lot
on what the numbers look like, whether this makes sense as a project itself. But there's no way we find
out what those numbers are if we don't vote yes tonight. So yeah, we should vote yes. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. For the sake of the record, I do see that Director
Gutschenritter has joined us. Director Guissinger, you're recognized.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thank you, others, for your comments. And I also
appreciate all the work that has gone into this project from our team and the others who have worked
hard on it. Even though I represent the Northwest Corridor, the western part of the Northwest Corridor,
and the corridor along with Director Benker, I think of this project in terms of its benefit to RTD.
And as others have said, there will be other chances to really weigh that benefit. But one of them is that,
as Ms. Johnson says, Northwest Rail has been the albatross around our neck for a long time. And this
gives us a way to move forward. It not only gives us a way to move forward. SB 161 says you have to
prioritize the Northwestern Corridor and the North Corridor, and you must do it by working together with
the state and these other entities.
So to me, this step really just needs to happen. It gives us the power to go back and really know the
numbers. I appreciate the comments from the CAC and others. Let's find out the real numbers. And then
we can talk and people will make their own decisions. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think a lot of good remarks have been made tonight. I'd like to
remind this group that my district has also contributed a lot of money to FasTracks with zero benefit-nothing. There has been nothing in there.
There was a commitment for enhanced bus service. My district has been cannibalized for other things.
There is nothing.
That being said, I support a system. The voters of this district voted for FasTracks, and so I do support
taking the next step in moving to find out what the real numbers are. And so I don't think that we should
stand in the way of this IGA.
But when I hear that we've put all this money into FasTracks and we haven't gotten our train, I bristle
because my district has contributed just as much with no benefit-- in fact, a subtraction of benefits in the
bus service. So I need to stand on record because I know a lot of people have contributed money. A lot of
promises have been made. There were no promises made for my district, but it has suffered as a result of
some of this moving forward.
I really want to find out the numbers. I absolutely do. I'm a skeptic, having done a lot of cost estimating in
the past, FasTracks being one of them. I really want to pore over the numbers carefully, and I know
Director Benker will do the same. But I think we should move forward to really be at the table, to act in
good faith, and to do our part, but also remain fiscally responsible. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I echo exactly what Director Catlin just said. In fact, it feels like we have to vote
for it to know what's in it, not to be too political. So I'm a very tepid yes. This will force a negotiation to
start.
And I am no fan of the numbers that as presented. But I do support moving forward on this opportunity to
find out what is going to be the final numbers. So I am a very tepid yes with a very big skeptic ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Chandler. Any other comments from Directors. Yeah Director
Guzman,

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll be quick. Thank you. I'm also a tepid yes on this. I do believe that it's the right
direction to move in. But my frustration is that we don't know how this is going to affect services.
The costs that we will get out of doing this, doing those numbers, that's going to be the really important
thing. And I will give the warning now. Anybody that joins this Board in the future, anybody who continues
to work on the Board into the next few years, please make sure you keep an eye on committing to what
you have said is your most important focus point, which is to increase the ridership.
Looking at the cost of numbers, I was really impressed with the work the CAC did in their letter. It was a
lot of the same questions that I have had and have been looking for answers for. And without knowledge
about how we're going to maintain a state of good repair on this line with a secure funding source, we
have another issue to deal with.
And so I will give the warning. That's the lens through which I will vote past this decision we make tonight
on anything that comes to this body, because if we do not have the funding to keep it in a good state of
repair and operational, then why are we doing it? Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director. Any other comments or questions from Directors?
OK, prior to us moving into the vote, I will just offer some thank-yous. Ms Johnson, Ms Snyder-- your
guys' teams, just greatly appreciate everything that you guys have done.
I've been in a couple of those principals meetings, and have greatly, greatly appreciated all of your
expertise with it. And I appreciate, Ms. Snyder, for you negotiating when it comes down to this IGA. I think
this is a good first step. I like to echo everything that I've heard from my Directors and it's an exploration
process. I think it is a process to understand the feasibility of this project.
We want to be good partners with the state. We want to fulfill our obligations. But at the same time, we
have to be responsible to the constituents and the folks who put us into these seats.
So I think this is a great next step to explore what are potential possibilities. And I'll offer that as our Board
Chair. And I will go and do this as a roll call vote. And we had Benker as the mover and Guissinger as the
second. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Absolutely yes. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Shocker Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Tepidly yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes,
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick is gone. Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yes
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, for today.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha is present and a yes. And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I'm not sure what's just a smidge warmer than tepid, but that's me. Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. I am also a yes. So this will pass 14-0 and 1 absent. Thank you all.
OK, moving on to our next item, our second action item for today is System Advertising Contract
Termination. And this is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her
delegate to execute all documents necessary to terminate RTD system advertising contract with Lamar
Transit. And this is an amount not to exceed $2,534,655.15. Do we have a mover?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: [INAUDIBLE] Whitmore.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was first.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Got Ruscha as the mover and Whitmore is the second. I will now turn to Chief
Communications Officer Stuart Summers. Would you please present this item to the Board?
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you, Chair. I believe all of you are familiar with a memorandum that was
sent by General Counsel. I'm just here to answer any follow-up questions before you take action.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you, Mr. Summers. Are there any questions or comments from
Directors. Yes, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. So Mr. Summers, assuming we take this action today, what does the handoff
look like in terms of when we will stop seeing advertisements from Lamar displayed on the system? When
will all the billboards will get taken down? What does that look like? And then what do we have in mind in
terms of timing for the next step. What comes after that?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Summers?
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah, Chair, thank you. And thank you, Director, for that question. A couple things
to keep in mind. We have a five-month window of what we're calling an unwinding period. This allows us
to unwind the agreement, ensure that we have everything in place as we assume control of the assets
that are out there.
That's mainly our digital signs, the screens. There's more than 300 of those across the system, and we'll
assume control and ownership of those assets. And then during this unwinding period, that's where
Lamar will continue to operate and provide the services through December 1 if you agree to take action.
I'll ask Ms Snyder if she has any other additional information related to that action.
JULIEN BOUQUET: General Counsel Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We would continue to honor any advertising
arrangements that are in place up until the termination of the contract.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary, does that answer your question?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just one more quick follow-up. And so after December 1, then, in the places where
we, for example, show advertising, as well as our timetables, those ads would just stop showing, and we
would just be showing timetables essentially. Am I understanding that correctly?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Recognizing what Chief Communications Officer Summers indicated, what we'll be
doing during this wind-down period is ascertaining our path forward. I think it would be premature to
speculate the ins and outs, because we will be negotiating with them relative to any authorization that you
would delegate to me. And I, in turn, would provide a delegation to staff as appropriate, so I am more than
willing to keep you all apprised. But considering that we are in this position now to determine the duration
of advertisements that have been previously sold, we do have an obligation, so recognizing we're talking
about the beginning of the year. And we will determine the best vehicle forward relative to any future
solicitation. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms Johnson. Secretary, are you good?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I'm good.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Excellent. Yes, Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. If I understand what you said correctly, we will assume control of these
areas of advertisement. That raises a concern for me. And so my question is this.
Once we assume control of those areas of advertisement-- I'm thinking of three specific bus stops within
my district, are we going to have the capacity to maintain them, keep them clean, and keep them
organized? Because that was the responsibility possibility of Lamar, who was advertising at those stops
specifically. And I don't want to be caught flat-footed as an agency or as a Director not being able to
maintain our assets. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Mr. Summers.
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah thank you, Chair. And thank you, Director Guzman, for the question. I'll start,
and I'll ask Ms Snyder, who has responsibility to lead the IT department. That's why we have this fivemonth wind-down period. It allows us to staff up appropriately, and be prepared to assume control and
ownership of these more than 300 digital assets.
It is, as you mentioned, a very labor-intensive operation. Screens go down all the time. They're
technology, and they get vandalized quite often-- graffiti, baseball bats, rocks. I know that you're familiar
with the ones at Decatur Federal often have vandalism to them. This allows us to appropriately put a plan
in place, as Ms Johnson mentioned, so that we can be prepared to take ownership, and then be able to
have that asset.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Any other questions or comments from Directors? OK, seeing
none-- are there any no votes on this item?
OK, seeing none, the item will pass 14-0 and 1 absent. Thank you very much, staff, for the presentation.
So that was our last item.
Moving on now to other matters, are there any other matters to discuss in this special Board meeting? All
right. Excellent. Seeing none. So just as a reminder to members of the public, and of course to our
Directors and all virtually assembled, our regular scheduled Board meeting will be here at 5:30 PM
tonight. Seeing no other conversation or other discussion, motion to adjourn?
All right. Guzman is the mover. We're adjourned. As of 3:55 PM. We'll see everyone at 5:30 tonight.

Northwest Mayors & Commissioners Coalition (MCC)

Boulder County

June 17, 2025

City of Boulder

NW MCC Letter of Support for the Joint Service Plan

City & County of
Broomfield

Dear RTD Board of Directors,

City of Lafayette
City of Longmont
City of Louisville
City of Westminster
Town of Erie
Town of Superior

The Northwest Mayors and Commissioners Coalition (NW MCC) has a
long history of working to advance regional multimodal transportation
planning in the northwest region.
This work has included the Northwest MCC’s support for:
• Full funding, construction, and operation of the Northwest Rail line (aka,
the “B Line”) between Denver Union Station (DUS) and Longmont,
inclusive of stations in Boulder, Louisville, Broomfield and Westminster.
• Creative and alternative rail implementation strategies (including level of
service phasing) as circumstances evolve.
• The funding, construction and operation of the Front Range Passenger
Rail Line (FRPR) along the BNSF/Northwest Rail alignment.
• All efforts necessary for RTD to successfully complete the B Line.
We are aware of the recently completed Joint Service Plan report that was
prepared per the requirements of SB24-184 and wanted to convey our
thoughts and express our support of the next step for an intergovernmental
agreement to continue collaboration.
We believe this plan provides an unprecedented opportunity to stack
available dollars, including new state funds, to operate the first phase of
Front Range Passenger Rail and provide rail service to the communities of
Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder and Longmont.
We hope this unique opportunity will advance rail for the Northwest Rail
communities that were promised rail service in RTD FasTracks and to put
into place some of the infrastructure needed to grow the system over
time. The Northwest MCC supports the signing of the Intergovernmental
Agreement to enable negotiations to proceed with the BNSF for a one-rail
solution.
We look forward to the partnership to advance rail, specifically rail for the
entire northwest metro region as soon as possible.
Sincerely,

Aaron Brockett
Mayor, City of Boulder

Mark Lacis
Mayor, Town of Superior

Claire Levy
Commissioner, Boulder County

JD Mangat
Mayor, City of Lafayette

Joan Peck
Mayor, City of Longmont

Guyleen Castriotta
Mayor, City and County of
Broomfield

Nancy McNally
Mayor, City of Westminster

Councilmember Emily Baer
Town of Erie

Christopher Leh
Mayor, City of Louisville

June 20, 2025
Commuting Solutions Letter of Support for the Joint Service Plan IGA Approval
Dear RTD Board of Directors:
Commuting Solutions is the nonprofit Transportation Management Organization
(TMO) for the northwest metro region who has been an advocate for multimodal
transportation improvements for our region since 1998. Our mission is to connect
people to places in the northwest metro region today for the future.
We have a long history of working in partnership with the RTD and other regional and
state transit partners to advance regional multimodal transportation for the
northwest metro region.
This work has included Commuting Solutions support for:
•
Full funding, construction and operation of the Northwest Rail line between
Denver Union Station and Longmont, inclusive of stations in Boulder,
Louisville, Broomfield and Westminster.
•
Creative and alternative rail implementation strategies (including level of
service phasing) as circumstances evolve.
•
The funding, construction and operation of the Front Range Passenger Rail
service (FRPR) along the BNSF/Northwest Rail alignment.
•
All efforts necessary for RTD to successfully complete the B Line.
We are aware of the recently completed Joint Service Plan report that was prepared
per the requirements of SB24-184 and wanted to convey our thoughts and express
our support of the next step for an Intergovernmental Agreement to continue
collaboration among the five governing boards.
We believe this approach provides an unprecedented opportunity to stack available
dollars, including new state funds, to operate a first phase of Front Range
Passenger Rail and provide rail service to the communities of Westminster,
Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder and Longmont.
We hope this unique opportunity will advance rail for the Northwest Rail
communities that were promised rail service in RTD FasTracks and to put into place
some of the infrastructure needed to grow the system over time. Commuting
Solutions supports the signing of the Intergovernmental Agreement to enable
negotiations to proceed with the BNSF for a one-rail solution.

We look forward to the partnership to advance rail, specifically rail for the entire
northwest metro region, as soon as possible.
Sincerely,

Kirsten Schuchman
Chairperson, Board of Directors
University of Colorado, Boulder, Associate Vice Chancellor for External
Partnerships
cc:

CTIO Board of Directors
CTE Board of Directors
CDOT Transportation Commission
FRPR District Board

Colorado Rail Passenger Association
P.O. Box 9613
Denver, CO 80209
president@ColoRail.org
(303) 884-5348
June 23, 2025
To the board of the Regional Transportation District:
The Colorado Rail Passenger Association urges members of the Board of Directors of RTD to
approve the Intergovernmental Agreement that will allow Colorado’s public agencies to jointly
pursue an access agreement with BNSF Railway for passenger rail service from Denver to
Fort Collins.
The IGA presents a pivotal opportunity for RTD to demonstrate continued leadership in
advancing public transit. It brings together RTD, CDOT, FRPRD, CTIO, and CTE to jointly
deliver the long-promised rail connection to Broomfield, Boulder, Longmont and other cities.
The partnership will create a single, unified voice in discussions with BNSF, ensuring efficiency,
clarity, and respect for freight operations as planning advances.
ColoRail leaders and members all want to see a vibrant system of buses and trains serving
the entire RTD service area. The unfinished nature of the Northwest line, with completion not
likely before 2042 with current RTD funds, stands as an obstacle to achieving that goal. The
Joint Service plan is a bold, creative approach to solving the problem and accelerating
completion.
The State of Colorado has stepped up to help RTD achieve its goals. SB24-230 will soon
provide major new funding for general transit operations. Both SB24-230 and SB24-184 are
yielding significant funds for the Joint Service partnership. RTD must step up too.
Joint Service leverages those new state revenues and honors the FasTracks commitments.
Voters and riders are watching closely for progress. Signing this IGA is a clear step in that
direction.
We respectfully urge RTD/FRPRD to enter the Joint Service IGA so that these efforts may
move forward in earnest. Our members, who include residents, transit users, transportation
professionals, and elected leaders, are ready to support RTD/FRPRD in this next phase of
advancing rail for Colorado’s future.
Regards,
Jack Wheeler

ColoRail President

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Kathy Partridge
Monday, June 16, 2025 2:01 PM
RTD.Directors
Approve the IGA!

Dear RTD Directors,
Please do not hesitate on this. We need our Northwest Rail. It is shockingly over due.
Thank you.
-Kathy Partridge
(she, they)

1

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

njej lester
Saturday, June 21, 2025 2:57 PM
RTD.Directors
IGA - vote yes, please

To the Directors:
It is coming to the attention of the general public that the RTD Board has options for funding a
Northwest rail line by joining forces with other interested parties and governmental agencies. We're
beginning to notice your action or lack thereof to create a regional transportation district that
offers...TRANSPORTATION.
I haven't talked to a single person in Longmont who would not like to see a train from Denver to
Longmont to Ft. Collins. Most are well aware that Longmont has thrown money at RTD for years, and
received no benefits.
Go ahead and approve the IGA when you vote on it this week. It will look like progress.
Sincerely,
Nadeen T. Lester

1

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Elvira Ramos
Saturday, June 21, 2025 3:28 PM
RTD.Directors
Intergovernmental Agreement

Dear Directors :
I am writing to urge you to vote YES on the on the “Intergovernmental Agreement” – the agreement that the
Governor’s Office, Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), Front Range Passenger Rail, and RTD, will
work together in partnership to make rail along the Front Range happen! Please plan to collaborate to build
the NW Rail Line, extending it to Fort Collins and negotiating with Burlington Northern Railroad for track
time. Those of us in Longmont have waited too long for this to happen.
Thank you.
Respectfully,
Elvira Ramos
Longmont, CO

1

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Richard Bamber
Saturday, June 21, 2025 6:24 PM
RTD.Directors
Please Vote “Yes” on the Northwest Corridor Joint Service IGA

Dear RTD Board of Directors,
As a resident of the Denver Metro Area, I am urging you to support RTD’s par cipa on in the Joint Service
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). This IGA is a cri cal step to deliver long-promised passenger rail along the
Northwest Rail Corridor without wai ng another 20 years for service to begin.
The IGA is a first step and is about working together, leveraging new state revenues with exis ng revenue, and showing
riders and voters that progress is possible. We need more reliable and sustainable transporta on op ons now – not in
decades me. Signing this agreement shows RTD’s leadership, honors past commitments, and posi ons RTD to be part of
a unified, statewide eﬀort to bring passenger rail to the Northwest Rail Corridor.
I hope you will vote “yes”.

Best wishes,
- Richard

1

​greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com​

​Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Special Board Meeting, Jun 24th, 2025​
​June 23rd, 2025​
​Julian Bouquet, RTD Board Chair​
​Regional Transportation District​
​1660 Blake Street​
​Denver, CO 80202​
​Dear Chair Bouquet,​
​Greater Denver Transit (GDT) writes regarding to the following two agenda topics:​
​“Yes” on the Joint Service Intergovernmental Agreement for Northwest Rail​
​GDT urges a “yes” vote on the upcoming motion to approve the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for Joint​
​Service motion to keep critical collaborative tasks between RTD, CDOT, the Governor's Office and the FRPR​
​District moving on Northwest Rail with confidence that further approval from the RTD Board will still be required​
​when (a) costs are presented after the Joint Service study is complete and (b) a track access agreement with​
​the line’s owner (the BNSF Railway) is on the table.​
​It is vital that RTD be seen as doing everything it possibly can to deliver on the promises of FasTracks, and at​
​this stage, there is only one path on the table with new funding, and this involves a partnership with the State​
​of Colorado, under whose authority RTD was created at the consent of voters.​
​Joint Services Executive Oversight Committee Representation​
​GDT supports the tightening of the requirements for a quorum for meetings of the Joint Services Executive​
​Oversight Committee (JSEOC) that mandates that all parties must be represented at a meeting for a vote to​
​take place.​
​GDT also welcomes the weighted voting arrangements which any JSEOC member may call for. We would​
​expect RTD to request weighted voting on motions where the agency is responsible for a significant proportion​
​of the funding to avoid a scenario where the other JSEOC members functionally have full control over​
​allocation of RTD’s funds.​
​GDT once again would like to urge Directors to vote “yes” on approving the IGA.​

​www.greaterdenvertransit.com​

​Page​​1​

​greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com​

​System Advertising Contract Termination​
​It is hard to convey in writing how much GDT welcomes the opportunity to terminate an extremely problematic​
​system advertising contract that has been shown to be at odds with a truly customer-focused experience on​
​RTD that will support ridership growth. From enduring dark and gloomy vehicle interiors due to excessive and​
​often unnecessary window wraps to frustrating experiences locating transit service information using digital​
​signs that often display irrelevant promotional and advertising messages, it is clear that RTD’s relationship with​
​advertising needs to be completely redefined. The termination of the system advertising contract will provide​
​an ideal opportunity to do this.​
​GDT urges RTD to create new policies as regards to advertising on the system in line with​​wayfinding​​best​
​practices​​and providing a welcoming transit environment​​for customers. Some parts of the customer​
​experience must now become off-limits for advertising, these include​​vehicle windows​​and​​digital signs​​that​
​display next bus or train information.​
​These policies should be adopted in advance of any new advertising contract being approved by the Board​
​and should also relate to RTD’s own promotional messages. Put simply, when a customer who has purchased​
​fare has two minutes to board a train and is seeking scheduling information, “Zero Fare for Youth” is not the​
​message they need to see from RTD at that exact moment in time.​
​Thanks for all you do,​

​James Flattum​

​Richard Bamber​

​Emma Griffin​

​Joe Meyer​

​CC:​

​RTD Board of Directors​
​Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO​
​Angel Peña, RTD Deputy CEO​

​www.greaterdenvertransit.com​

​Page​​2​

June 21, 2025
Dear RTD Board of Directors,
On behalf of the below organizations, we are writing to encourage you to approve an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) that would enable RTD to join CDOT, CTE, CTIO, FRPR
and the Governor’s office in a joint negotiation with BNSF to obtain the details needed to
determine the true costs and opportunity of establishing train service within the Northwest
corridor of RTD’s region.
Signing an IGA and joining with other agencies and the state to determine the true costs of a
joint service option is the best way to accelerate the completion of FasTracks and allow our
region to have the critical conversation around our next big transit expansion.
It’s been over two decades since voters approved FasTracks, the last big expansion of our
transit system in the Denver metro region. We are overdue for our next big expansion of service.
In the last two decades many regions across the US have gone back to voters multiple times for
additional support to improve transit service.
At the same time, due to higher costs and lower revenue than expected, the FasTracks funding
has not been sufficient to complete everything voters approved in 2004 including the full build
out of NW Rail, the N line, the SE line and the L line. Without additional funding, these lines will
not be completed until 2050 at the earliest.
Because of new funding from an oil and gas fee and a rental car fee that the state legislature
created and the Governor approved in 2024, some state money will be available to support
transit that did not exist even a few years ago. This in turn creates the potential opportunity to
accelerate the timeline of train service along the NW corridor to 2029.
An initial analysis indicates that approximately $83 million a year, of which RTD would contribute
approximately $41 million per year, would be enough to fund 3 daily trains from Denver to
Longmont and beyond to Fort Collins as early as 2029. If accurate, that could mean train
service that starts decades earlier than RTD could provide on its own. It could also reduce the
costs for RTD by partnering with longer distance train service to Fort Collins.
However, these are all just estimates. And as we learned with FasTracks in 2004, unless you
have a negotiated agreement with BNSF, any costs to run train service along their tracks from
Denver to Longmont could be higher than expected.
Therefore, understanding the true cost of a joint train service in the NW corridor will require real
and meaningful negotiation between the major transportation entities in the region and BNSF.
As we stated earlier, it's been two decades since the last big expansion of transit in the region.
It’s critical that we begin conversations for the next big expansion.

Providing great public transit service is important because buses and trains provide the freedom
for people to get around without always needing to drive. That in turn can reduce congestion,
climate pollution and the tailpipe emissions that fuel our dangerous ozone days. Transit can
provide public health and safety benefits and help people save money. And it can ensure people
have great access to everything from jobs and housing to schools, groceries and entertainment,
no matter who they are.
Taken together, public transit improves the quality of life of people living, working and traveling
in cities.
But RTD’s service has slipped since the pandemic. 2023 service levels were at only 72% of
pre-pandemic levels and the current goals in the System Optimization Plan will only get us to
85% by 2026.
Accelerating the progress toward completing the full FastTracks rail network approved by voters
in 2004, while reducing costs to RTD to provide that service, is a critical way to enable our
region to more quickly move forward to the next big expansion - an expansion that grows
beyond 2019 service levels and doubles the number of people who have easy, convenient
access to frequent, fast and reliable transit in the region.
Signing an IGA and joining with other agencies and the state to determine the true costs of a
joint service option is the best way to accelerate the completion of FasTracks and allow our
region to have the critical conversation around our next big transit expansion.
Sincerely,
Danny Katz, CoPIRG
Jill Locantore, Denver Streets Partnership
Matt Frommer, Southwest Energy Efficiency Project (SWEEP)
Renée Larrarte, Conservation Colorado
Rudolph “Rudy” Gonzales, President & CEO, Servicios de La Raza
Jamie Lewis, Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition

Citizens Advisory
Committee
Citizens Advisory Committee
June 10, 2025
RTD Board of Directors
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear RTD Board of Directors,
On behalf of the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC), we respectfully submit the following
questions, comments, and recommendations for the June Special Board Meeting discussion on
SB24-184 – Front Range Passenger Rail Development. This input, compiled from multiple
different CAC members, is intended to support the Board’s deliberation of a potential
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between RTD, the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT), Colorado Transportation Investment Office (CTIO), Colorado Energy
Office, Front Range Passenger Rail District (FRPRD), and the Governor’s Office, as well as the
proposed commitment of up to $40 million annually in RTD funding to support the Joint Rail
Service effort.
Thank you for taking the time to consider these topics.
Sincerely,
Bryn Grunwald
CAC Co-Chair

Eric Smith
CAC Co-Chair

Bryn Grunwald

Eric Smith

Joint Rail Service: CAC Questions to the Board
This set of questions aims to clarify the Board’s position and available options regarding
entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) to oversee and fund joint rail service
between Fort Collins and Denver Union Station (DUS). The primary focus of these questions is to
understand the realistic scope of RTD’s funding commitments, and to clarify the impact of these
financial commitments on RTD’s existing service, planned SOP implementations, and remaining
unfinished FasTracks projects. These comments are based primarily on three reports:
• RTD’s NW Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study from August 2024 (Peak Study)
• FRPR Project SB-184 Preliminary Financial Analysis from March 2025 (Joint Corridor)
• FRPR Preliminary Analysis Report from March 2025 (FRPR Analysis)
We acknowledge that the questions take a skeptical tone towards RTD participating in Joint
Service on the NW corridor. However, we support RTD taking steps to follow through on its
promise to voters, and we realize that this joint service is the most realistic way for RTD to
connect Denver, Boulder, and Longmont by rail. Many of these questions aim to highlight and
clarify the costs expected to be shouldered by RTD (and the associated opportunity costs),
challenging the assumptions about what amount of financial contribution should be
expected/asked from RTD. RTD should not be treated as the magical piggy bank that will plug all
financial gaps in the project, but instead should be able to set realistic limits on the funding it is
responsible for, commensurate with the service the agency will receive. As the likely most
capital-intensive of the remaining FasTracks projects, plans should be put in place to prevent
any Joint Service on this corridor from preventing completion of the other remaining projects in
a timely manner.
The below assumptions form the basis for many of the questions.
• The NW Rail Peak Service Feasibility Study included 3 round trips per day between DUS
and Longmont, with 6 new stations. It estimated:
o Capital cost $650M ($140M for purchasing rail vehicles)
o Operations & Maintenance (O&M) $12-16M (2024$)
o Ridership ~400,000/yr
• The Joint Corridor includes3 round trips per day between DUS and Fort Collins, with 7
new stations - 3 of which are identified as RTD stations. It estimates:
o Capital cost $885M ($124M for purchasing rail vehicles)
o O&M $27-29M (2022$)
o Debt service $50M annually (year-of-expenditure)
o No ridership estimate is given (only number of seats available)
• Extrapolating the differences in these two studies, the Longmont to Fort Collins segment
is estimated to make up at least $250M in capital costs and $15M in O&M.
• Fort Collins to DUS service operates on 77 miles of track. 44 miles of this are in the RTD
boundary, with six of those miles as existing B-Line track. Just over half (38/71 = ~53%) of
the track requiring upgrades, and just over half of the operating miles (44/77 = ~57%) are
within the RTD boundary.

•

•
•
•
•
•

•

Building off the NW Corridor Peak Service Feasibility Study ridership estimate of 1,100
boardings/day (~400,000 annual ridership) and adding additional ridership beyond the
NW Corridor study - captured by extending the rail line to Fort Collins - is assumed to
result in total annual boardings of 500,000 or fewer for the Joint Service.
Capital funding for specific upgrades includes $94M in CRISI grants and associated state
matching funds (which may not have been available to RTD under the NW Corridor Peak
Service Study funding assumptions).
Additional major capital and operations and maintenance (O&M) funding is planned to
come from SB24-184 (rental car fees) and SB24-230 (oil and gas fees).
The initial estimate for annual O&M plus debt service contribution expected from RTD is
$40M. This is roughly half of the O&M cost and half of the debt service cost.
There is no published estimate of initial capital cost contribution, or debt load, expected
from RTD.
In 2023, RTD reported to the National Transit Database (NTD) an average cost per
vehicle revenue hour (VRH) of:
o $203 for bus service.
 Adjusted for inflation, this is approximately $210 per VRH in 2025.
o $330 per light rail passenger car (per car rather than per train is consistent with
the NTD definition of VRH for train consists).
 Adjusted for inflation, this is approximately $340 per VRH in 2025.
 $1,020 per train revenue hour, assuming an average light rail train
contains 3 passenger cars.
o $394 per commuter rail passenger car.
 Adjusted for inflation, this is approximately $407 per VRH in 2025.
 $1,221 per train revenue hour, assuming an average commuter rail train
contains 3 passenger cars.
In 2023, RTD reported to the National Transit Database (NTD) an average cost per
unlinked passenger trip (UPT) of:
o $9.12 for bus service, or around $10.21 in 2025 dollars.
o $12.67 for light rail service, or around $13.45 in 2025 dollars.
o $13.03 for commuter rail service, or around $13.08 in 2025 dollars.

Referring to the above assumptions as needed, please consider the following comments and
questions.
1. RTD is being asked to fund roughly half of the O&M and debt service costs. Given that the
infrastructure and operations outside of the RTD boundary are only needed for FRPR
service, and the infrastructure and operations within the boundary are needed both for
FRPR and for RTD service, it seems prudent to split the costs out such that RTD is paying
no more than half of the bill for infrastructure and operations within its service area.
What is a more reasonable cost split given the shared infrastructure and operations within
the RTD area?

2. $80M in annual costs (total contribution from all parties) to move 500,000 passengers is
$160/boarding, an order of magnitude more than the ~$13/boarding associated with
RTD’s current rail service. Does the extreme subsidy needed for this service make sense
relative to all other front-range and RTD transit needs? How much of this subsidy is RTD
willing to contribute?
3. A very small amount of this cost could be recovered via fares. Presumably, at least in the
RTD area, fares will be the same as for all other transit travel at less than $3/ride, yielding
less than $1M/year. It is very important to note that the FRPR Analysis assumes fares of at
least 19 cents/mile (about $6 DUS – Boulder) and recommends a fare of 37 cents/mile
(over $10 DUS – Boulder, and over $15 to Longmont). Assuming RTD keeps its fare at
under $3/ride, does that mean that RTD would need to make up the difference, paid to
the Joint Service entity? Which entity has the ability to set the fares for the portion of the
service within RTD’s boundaries, and how would the revenue be distributed?
4. The Northwest Area Mobility Study suggests that a significant portion of the rail ridership
– at a cost of $160/trip – would be made up of riders who simply switched from adjacent
bus routes (FF, LD, BOLT, soon-to-exist Boulder/Longmont BRT), which are assumed to
have operating costs similar to the NTD-reported average for bus operations, of ~$10/trip.
How will this large increase in cost per boarding, with potentially minimal net overall
ridership gains, be managed within RTD? How will RTD estimate the shift in riders from
bus to rail service, and the associated net ridership change as a result?
5. If RTD is expected to provide $40M/year in annual funding, will this money be reallocated from existing / planned operations funding, from FasTracks revenue / savings
account, or from another source?
6. If the $40M is largely to be re-allocated from operations funding, that is the rough
equivalent of removing ~190,000 bus service hours per year (~8% of estimated 2024 bus
service), ~40,000 light rail service hours per year (~17% of estimated 2024 light rail
service), or ~33,000 commuter rail service hours per year (~33% of estimated 2024
commuter rail service). Are these cuts at risk of occurring? How will FF bus service be
protected from funding/service cuts? (Note that cutting all FF and LD routes would
account for only ~66,500 revenue hours per year and would result in significantly worse
service - and large ridership loss - between Longmont, Boulder, and Denver.)
7. If the $40M is found elsewhere then the same money could, for example, triple FF and
LD bus service. Given that these routes already account for approximately 1.5 million
boardings per year, such a large increase in service would likely result in more net
ridership gains than 3 round-trip trains per day.
8. Have alternate methods of calculating a reasonable operating cost contribution from
RTD been explored? Some examples of this could be to apply RTD’s existing commuter
rail operating cost per passenger-mile to the number of passenger-miles expected to be
provided by joint service within the RTD boundary, or to apply RTD’s existing commuter
rail cost per service hour to the expected service hours expected to be provided by joint
service within the RTD boundary.

9. How much capital and maintenance funding is BNSF being asked to contribute? By
tonnage, freight operations are likely expected to be a much bigger contribution to
deterioration of track infrastructure. Crossing and signaling improvements benefit
freight operations through increased efficiency and increased safety (including safety
benefits to the surrounding communities); the passenger rail entities should not be
expected to solely fund all of these improvements and maintenance.
10. The current proposal for RTD funding contributions appears to be driven by FRPR finding
a hole in the budget after applying estimates from SB24-184 and SB24-230 funds, and
asking RTD to plug the gap. Have other entities been considered for financial
contributions, either to capital costs or O&M? For example, have municipalities served
by the proposed route been asked for funding, and has CDOT or the state been asked to
contribute additional money (separate from the fees mentioned above) to this project?
11. What are the current best estimates for RTD’s contribution to capital construction costs,
and how can funding for other unfinished FasTracks corridors be protected from
diversion to this Joint Service?
12. If RTD contributes significant capital funding and/or uses the FISA to secure additional
financing, what is the State willing to do to help RTD fund or otherwise execute other
FasTracks corridors such as the significantly less expensive Central Rail Extension?
13. What is the current projected gap by year between FasTracks maintenance obligations
and FasTracks revenue? How detrimental will this new service be to any currently
projected maintenance liabilities for the existing system?
14. Does RTD have leverage to use SB24-184 and SB24-230 money on other projects
without collaboration with FRPR? If so, how much of this money can be used on other
RTD rail infrastructure and unfinished FasTracks projects?
15. If RTD were to instead extend the B Line with fully electrified rail, how far could the
current service be extended for the same cost as RTD is expected to contribute to Joint
Service capital cost and debt service?
16. Can the CRISI-funded improvements to the corridor begin to be built prior to an IGA?
17. How will the Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee plan for future frequency
increases, or future additions of RTD-operated trains, in negotiations with BNSF? Can
options for increased service be secured prior to entering into a contract with BNSF to
prevent service from being limited to 3 round trips per day if the ridership and the
available funding justify service increases?
18. Is RTD expected to provide maintenance and security for the rail stations within its
district boundary in addition to the contributed O&M costs? Alternatively, will all parties
share all station upkeep and security costs?
19. Rail ridership will surely depend on how easily people can get to the stations.
Unfortunately, some of these stations – notably Boulder and Louisville – allowing for
only very limited parking and require the majority of rail users to first take buses to get
to rail. At a minimum, RTD’s O&M assumptions should include the cost of providing
excellent bus service to all of the rail stations to meet the outgoing and incoming trains.
What would that cost RTD? Will local municipalities contribute to the associated
operating cost?

20. Does the RTD Board have a stated position or preference regarding bus versus rail
service between Boulder and Longmont? Given that high-frequency bus service may
offer greater flexibility, cost-effectiveness, and capacity to serve more riders throughout
the day, we encourage a clear articulation of how each option is being evaluated in
terms of ridership potential, capital and operating costs, and service frequency.
21. Will all documents related to this effort—including IGAs, agreements, and supporting
analyses—be made publicly available in a timely and accessible manner? Given the
significance of this investment, we urge RTD to prioritize transparency and public
accountability throughout the decision-making process. Additionally, will all of this
information be consolidated in one location and made available through one entity (the
Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee)?
Joint Rail Service: CAC Recommendations to the RTD Board
With the prior questions in consideration, the CAC would like to respectfully recommend the
following:
• Before entering into any agreement, ensure that all of your questions and concerns –
along with those from the CAC that you find helpful and relevant – are answered,
discussed, and resolved. Further, ensure that all of the information and discussions are
publicly available sufficiently in advance of any Board decisions so as to allow for
informed public comment.
• While the mission of the FRPR is to provide rail service along the entire front range,
RTD’s mission – and its funding – is to provide mobility services within its district.
Although joint rail service could advance the goals of both agencies and would serve a
larger region, RTD must ensure that its very significant capital and O&M contributions to
joint rail service will not be detrimental to future service within the district.
• RTD also should fully examine alternative uses of the funding it would provide for joint
rail service, with an emphasis on increasing net transit ridership. Existing studies such as
NAMS and a recent proposal from environmental & transit groups, strongly suggest that
similar funding levels put to use for BRT, bus headway improvements, etc., could
perhaps double current RTD transit ridership. Joint rail service will move very few
people and may actually result in a true net ridership increase that will be negligible at
best. In fact, the FRPR Analysis of the entire front range corridor - with vastly higher
capital and O&M costs – suggests a total ridership of less than 1,000,000/year. You might
compare that with the current ridership of the FF, at a tiny fraction of the cost, of over
1,300,000/year.
o Some additional background information: Based on NTD-reported figures,
$40M/year is approximately 190,000 bus revenue hours, which is roughly
equivalent to the service provided by the FF, BOLT, BOND, DASH, JUMP, and SKIP
routes combined. These routes accounted for approximately 3.89 million
boardings in the 2024 schedule period.

•
•

•

Capital and O&M costs that will not be covered by the state must be allocated fairly
across all of the regions/entities that will benefit from joint rail service, and not solely by
RTD, as seems to be the current plan.
If the RTD Board determines that it should sign an IGA on joint rail service, at minimum
there must be an absolute upper bound on RTD’s contribution to capital costs
(presumably from its FISA account, and based on those capital elements that can
eventually be used for NW Rail service), and that must be matched, based on costallocation, by contributions from the entities outside of the RTD district. In addition,
sufficient FISA money, and associated matching state funds, must be set aside for other
incomplete FasTracks projects, to prevent continued delay of all other projects at the
expense of funding 1,200 seats/day of capacity between Longmont and Denver.
Similarly, any IGA must specify an absolute upper bound on RTD’s contribution to O&M
(which shouldn’t exceed the cost of running peak service within RTD’s NW Rail
boundaries), which also must be matched, based on cost-allocation, by entities outside
of the RTD district. In addition, O&M costs related to rail, crossing, and signaling
infrastructure should be split with BNSF based on tonnage or another appropriate
metric, such that RTD and FRPR do not end up disproportionately funding upgrades and
maintenance to BNSF’s infrastructure.

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Michael MacLauchlan <michaelmaclauchlan@gmail.com>
Wednesday, June 25, 2025 10:39 AM
board@frprdistrict.com
klangford@denverpost.com; RTD.Directors; Jack Kroll
Public Comment - consider Maglev for Colorado

Let's explore the promises of Maglev high speed trains as we consider transport options for the front
range. Maglev also has the promise of being able to handle 10 degree inclines making it a natural
extension to our mountain resort communities relieving traffic on I-70.
Katie Langford article in the DP today: https://www.denverpost.com/2025/06/25/front-range-raildenver-boulder-fort-collins-rtd
Maglev Trains:
Update from China: https://www.newsgd.com/node_5c070fdd03/465bc7bc9f.shtml or,

Update from Japan: Central Japan Railway Company (JR Central), L0
Series https://www.jrailpass.com/blog/maglev-bullet-train

1

Another alternative worth considering is PRT / ATN (Personal Rapid Transit / Automated Transit
Network) where small transport pods, propelled by maglev, would move four to six people with no (or
very limited) intermediate stops - the total station to station transport time may be even better than
maglev trains.
Depending upon projected volumes (passengers/cargo) eVTOL may have better cost/benefits (lower
land purchases, infrastructure, maintenance).
Please advise that these options are being considered versus the century + older rail technology. We
don't want to implement technology that will be obsolete in a few years: let's consider Maglev, ATN/PRT
and or eVTOL.
Thank you.
Michael MacLauchlan
Denver CO
303 388 4822

2

