Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 8, 2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 8, 2009

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, September 8, 2009 at 5:44 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Chair Christopher, Vice – Chair Bagley, Director Brohl, Director Busck
Director Chacon, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James, Director
Kemp, Director Martinez, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director
Pulliam, Director Tobiassen,
Subject:

Board Members
Absent:

Director Tayer

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Marla Lien, John Shonsey, Susan Johnson, Stan
Szabelak, David Genova, Scott Reed, Terry Howerter, Bruce Abel, Cal
Shankster, Bill Porter, Brian Matthews, Bill Sirois, Susan Wood, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Gil, Jeff Becker, George Hovey, Carolyn Conover, Martha
Hecox, Carol Duecker, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Trent Ratcliff, John
Tarbert, Larry Buter, Eric Farrington

Others Present:

Debra Baskett (City and County of Broomfield), Jeff Leib (Denver
Post),
****

Call to Order

Chair Christopher called the meeting to order at 5:44 p.m. and stated that
a quorum was present.

I.

Recommended Action
 U.S. 36 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER)
Grant Contingent Commitment – John Shonsey introduced this action and gave
an overview of the criteria to receive this grant.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
of Directors offer fiscal support for the U.S. 36 application for “Transportation
Investment Generating Economic Recovery” (TIGER) funds. Through preparation
of the U.S. 36 Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), the U.S. 36 communities,
in concert with RTD and the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT),
have been planning improvements to the U.S. 36 Corridor for the last six years.
The planning efforts have culminated in the recommendation of multi-modal
improvements ready for implementation. It is recommended that RTD offer

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 8, 2009
Page 2 of 4

support for the application by pledging $25 million for transit-related
improvements, beginning in 2010, contingent upon the receipt of at least $25
million in TIGER grant funds for the U.S. 36 project and a corresponding match
commitment from CDOT. Committing these matching funds will strengthen the
application and better position this project to maximize the opportunity for
federal funding. Funding for the $25 million is included in the FasTracks
Financial Plan in the U.S. 36 BRT - Phase 2 project.
Director Christopher shared that $100 billion has been requested nationwide for
the $1.5 billion available. In addition within the last few days, CDOT has come
forward with an additional five million dollars that they are providing to the
project. Director Christopher would like to see the District take this request up
to $30 million to match the CDOT contribution with the same contingencies.
The deadline to submit the TIGER grant application is September 15, 2009.
Chair Christopher acknowledged Debra Baskett from the City and County of
Broomfield who has been very instrumental in the U.S. 36 project.
Director McMullen voiced his support for this project and noted how much this
project is needed.
Motion: Director Kemp made a
motion to forward the Board action
with a friendly amendment to make
it $30 million instead of $25 million
to the September 22, 2009 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Bagley seconded the
motion.
Director Kemp spoke about how this is a “shovel ready” project and that this
will show that we are moving forward with getting FasTracks built.
Chair Christopher shared that all the entities involved in US36 are on board with
this request.
Marla Lien said that the FasTracks plan itself authorized funding for BRT phase
2, in terms of platforms, proportional share of HOV lanes and bikeway. So this
project would fall under the BRT plan and not as a transfer from rail to BRT.
Director Brohl wanted to know if $30 million was included in the BRT plan.
Marla said that it was. Director Brohl then wanted to know what the 10 million
buys us that wouldn’t have been available otherwise (CDOT and RTD money).
John Shonsey said that the extra money gets us further on managed lanes,
amenities associated with the bike path, and pavement replacement. John
Shonsey said it would be improved functionality for our bus system.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 8, 2009
Page 3 of 4

Director Bagley was concerned that if we put in more money, then the Federal
Government won’t put in as much money. Mr. Shonsey said that it could go
the other way as well; the government could put in more money seeing the local
support.
Chair Christopher clarified that there is no matching requirement in the program
but more contribution shows greater local support.
Director Martinez asked if the TIGER grant is not awarded does the $30 million
still stay with the corridor? The response from staff was that the money would
stay with the corridor.
Vote On
Motion: Motion passed unanimously
Director Busck left after the vote.
II.

Update
a. Sustainability – Stan Szabelak and Sue Johnson gave this presentation. A copy
of the presentation can be found in the Planning and Development Committee
Meeting Minute Notebook. Mr. Szabelak reviewed the Sustainability program
and spoke about some of the successes:
-

The District recycled 4 tons of cardboard and 48 tons of paper in 2008.
Reduced copy and print paper consumption by 20%
Received 11% Xcel wind energy in 2008.
Proposers must include sustainability items in their proposals for RTD
projects.

APTA is beginning a Pilot Phase Sustainability Commitment that the District is
considering making a commitment at the entry level.
Director Bagley wanted to know how other transit agencies compare in their
sustainability efforts. Mr. Szabelak said he would follow up with that
information at a later time.
The Directors requested a cost benefit analysis of the program.
Director Chacon thanked former Board member Dave Ruchman for pushing this
program forward. She is very happy to see our leadership position and how far
we have come.
III.

Other Matters- No other matters were discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting Date - The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on
Tuesday, October 6, 2009.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 8, 2009
Page 4 of 4

V.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at 6:31 p.m.

