Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 3, 2010
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 4, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on August 3, 2010 at
p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair McMullen, Vice-Chair O’Boyle, Directors Bagley,
Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Christopher, Daly, James, Malpiede, Martinez,
Pulliam, and Tayer
Directors Kemp and Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Washington, Lien, Perdue, Magee, Clarke, Van Meter, Perez, Genova,
Howerter, McLaughlin, Sirois, Abel, Tonilas, Walker, Jenkins, Reed,
Menendez, Gil, Serna, Walker,

Others Present:

Debra Wilcox, Jane Donovan, Brain Middleton, Maria Garcia Berry, Jeff
Leib, Bob Wilson, Robin Kneich, Mac Callison
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 6:41 p.m.

Updates
 CAC Update - Debra Wilcox, CAC Co-Chair gave this update. The CAC held their
quarterly meeting at Rocky Top Middle School. They are going to take their
meetings throughout the District to show the community a different side of
FasTracks. Director Busck joined them at that meeting. The community needs to
feel that there are multiple communication modes with RTD. Those in attendance
really want FasTracks completed as soon as possible. There is still a lot of
misinformation out there in the corridors and some distrust. People are very
interested in having the P3 savings directed to their corridor. Directing all that
money back into existing corridors would be a bad message.
“Keep FasTracks on track” was there and they are a very positive group.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 3, 2010
Page 2

The CAC’s outreach is a very valuable tool for the project. The next quarterly
meeting will be on September 15, 2010 at the Children’s Hospital at the Anschutz
Medical Center in Aurora.
Director Brohl wanted to know if meetings were recorded so people could hear
them later.
Director McMullen said he planned on attending the next quarterly meeting and
encouraged the Board to attend.
II.

Recommended Actions:
 Recommendation to Extend the URS contract on the North Metro Corridor to
complete the FEIS/ROD and Advanced Basic Engineering – Bill Van Meter brought
this action forward. This action will allow us to get to a FEIS/ROD by March of
next year. As a result of the ridership numbers released last week, the FTA
strongly suggested holding up the FEIS/ROD and incorporate the new numbers.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to increase the contract with the
current North Metro corridor consultant, URS, in an amount not to exceed
$400,000 for a total contract value of $15,073,574 to complete the
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and advanced basic engineering. Funds for
this effort are included in the 2010 amended budget for the North Metro corridor.
MOTION:

Director Busck made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the August
17, 2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

General Manager Washington added that he said we would have all corridors
construction ready by the end of the year. This corridor will be the exception.
Director Busck added in fairness that the delay is not RTD’s fault.


Approval for Providing Funding to the Denver Union Station Project Authority to
Draw Federal Project of National and Regional Significance Grant Funds
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement with the
Denver Union Station Project Authority in an amount not to exceed $41.3 million
to advance funding for construction of the Denver Union Station project. These

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 3, 2010
Page 3
funds would be repaid directly to RTD by CDOT within approximately 60-90 days
after RTD expends the funds, using federal Project of National and Regional
Significance (PNRS) grant funds awarded to CDOT for the DUS project, per an
IGA executed by RTD and CDOT on April 23, 2010. Funding for this work is
included in the 2010 Amended Budget for the Denver Union Station project.
MOTION:

Director Cohen made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the August
17, 2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Martinez seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Director Bagley said this is an exciting time for DUSPA. The TIFIA and RIF loans
closed about a week ago. He commended Marla Lien for her work on this. This
is a tremendous thing to have finished.
III.

Updates
 P3 Financial Close - Brian Middleton gave a brief update of this. Closing will be in
New York on August 12, 2919. Following conclusion of financial close, Notice to
Proceed will be issued. Groundbreaking is set for August 26, 2010.
 Potential Ballot Initiative Schedule – Maria Garcia Berry gave this update. She
said she wanted to “set the stage” for what the Directors need to think about in
regards to going to the ballot.






Desire to maintain option on going to the ballot in future years
Highly dynamic process
Heavily influenced by issues outside Board’s control
RTD “controls its own destiny” – Board must be methodical and
analytical in its decision-making process
Align with financial and budget making process

The Board needs to understand voter patterns. There are 1.2 million active voters in
the District. Jefferson, Arapahoe, and Denver Counties represent 60% of active
voters.
In a general election year, the 45 and over age demographic is 65% of the voting
population.
Outside influences
Outcome of future elections

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 3, 2010
Page 4
Federal and state level
Initiatives and referendums
Possible future ballot issues
Private stakeholder priorities
Program priorities, focus and direction
Funding capacity/commitment
Other revenue enhancement/tax measures
Local municipalities and special districts
Deciding what is on the ballot is as critical as “when” it will be on the ballot;
The Board must develop a rigorous process for receiving and evaluating input from
staff, public partners and private stakeholders. The decision is critical to maintaining
public “credibility.”
Four premises for decision making
-must have all the facts
-be aware of outside influences
-clarify what will be asked of the voters
-understand timeframe/timeline
Chair McMullen said that we need to wait and see what happens this November
before we move forward. We don’t have enough information. Chair McMullen said
the Eagle project is about to start, when will we hear from staff on what we are
looking at on other corridors in terms of finances. General Manager Washington said
staff will come and talk to the Board in October after Financial Close.
Director Tayer said he appreciates this and that it gives us a great framework for
making this decision.
Director Daly said that in an off year election, we must be cautious of mail in ballots.
Chair McMullen wanted to know about jobs, when will we see the new jobs? How
many years? General Manager Washington said that we will start seeing jobs on
Eagle P3 very quickly, plus the current jobs on West Corridor and at DUS. Chair
McMullen would like to see a report on job creation.
Director Busck said that tonight starts the process of gathering information. We will
learn a lot after November election.
Director Bagley said this is powerful information for the Board and requested hard
copies of presentation.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, August 3, 2010
Page 5

IV.

Other Matters – Director Martinez made a recommendation for future meeting
topics: presentation from DIA on the South terminal redevelopment and an update
from DIA on aviation station selection process.
General Manager Washington announced that after much work by staff, we will sign
an agreement with Union Pacific tomorrow at 3:00 p.m. and invited the Board to
come. It will be a great day. The Committee commended Marla Lien and staff for
their hard work on this deal.
Director Bagley asked General Manager Washington to speak about his participation
in the MOVE Colorado (an organization that promotes multi modal transportation in
Colorado) panel.
General Manager Washington shared that it was a very lively
conversation in a packed room and Directors Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly, and Kemp
attended.
Director Bagley shared that he (along with Directors Brohl and James) attended the
Biannual of the Americas discussion on energy and climate change last week and it
was a very interesting discussion.

V.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is
scheduled for September 7, 2010.

VI.

Adjourn – Committee Chair McMullen adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee at 7:32 p.m.

