Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 23, 2007
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

January 30, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, January 23, 2007, at 4:00p.m. in the 3'd Floor Board
Conference Room

****
Committee
Members Present:

Wally Pulliam, Chairman; Noel Busck, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly,
Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, John Tayer,
Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Sherry Ellebracht, Scott Reed, Caitlin
Magee

Others Present:

Tom Bastien (via telephone), Julie McKenna, Jeff Leib, Holman
Carter

****
Call to Order:

I.

Chairman Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:21 p.m.

Federal Update - Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, gave the
Federal Update. Fiscal Year 07 appropriations will be funded at the 2006 rate.
This will not affect T-REX and it may affect the West Corridor. The District had
asked for $35 million on the West Corridor and since there is not a full funding
grant agreement in place, the amount to be awarded is unclear at this time. This
bill could be wrapped up by mid-February. The District's request for FY08 will
be submitted at the earmarks received in SAFTE-LU -- $79.5 million for T-REX
and $25 million for the West Corridor.
Cal Marsella spoke about revenue versus expenditures regarding our ex1stmg
operations and also regarding FasTracks. The District's sales tax revenues are
close to projections but not quite there. Staff feels that the District is taking a
hit because internet sales are exempt from sales tax. Cal Marsella said that he
has asked Sherry Ellebracht to talk to the Colorado Municipal League (CML)
about working this issue as a partner. Cal Marsella would like the Legislative

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 23, 2007
Page 2 of 3
Committee to authorize exploration by the staff at both the state and federal
level to see if we can generate some interest in a positive initiative to eliminate
the sales tax exemption for internet sales.
Motion:

Director
Christopher
made a motion to direct
staff
and the District's
lobbyists to go forward
on this issue and do a
collaborative effort with
CML,
CCI and other
interested parties.

Second:

Director Kinton seconded
the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

Hearing no objection,
Chairman Pulliam
declared the motion
passed.

State Update - Julie McKenna, lobbyist for Brandeberry-McKenna Public Affairs,
gave the update on State Issues.
o SB 07-088 RTD Parking Management Bill - This bill was assigned to the
Business Affairs Committee and was not yet scheduled for hearing. A
talking point paper has been prepared.
o Utility Relocation Bill - Senator Suzanne Williams is the sponsor on this bill.
Lobbyists are meeting with her on Monday, January 29, to review the bill
and how to avoid some of the difficulties encountered last time with the
PUC and the Governor's veto of that bill. This bill mirrors the authority that
COOT had when they were building T-REX.
o Railroad Indemnification Issue - There have been several meetings with
Senator Joan Fitzgerald about how RTD can move forward with
negotiations with Burlington-Northern railroad.
Senator Fitzgerald will
present a resolution to the Legislature encouraging a nationwide risk pool
that all transit systems nationwide could buy into. It is going to be difficult
but Cal Marsella and Chairman Pulliam feel there will be an indemnification
bill this year.
o RTD boundary description consolidation amendment -Chairman Pulliam
spoke to this bill.
Representative Weissmann may carry this bill in the
House. Sherry Ellebracht passed out a draft copy of this bill. This is a
housekeeping bill.
o Annexation of "incorporated" enclaves bill - led by City of Aurora. This is
not the District's bill. The District's lobbyists are assisting the City of
Aurora's lobbyist with getting this bill approved.
o House Bill 1006 - Paul Weissmann was carrying this bill, it prohibited
distractions while driving. The bill died in Committee today.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 23, 2007
Page 3 of 3
Ill.

Other Matters - Marla Lien, General Counsel, spoke about a few labor bills that
are in the legislature. There is one in particular that strikes most sections of the
Colorado Labor Peace Act on Union Certification. Marla Lien said that she is
unsure of how an employer would know with certainty who they have to deal
with. Right now, if a union is certified, that is who you negotiate with. Julie
McKenna said this bill has already passed the House and is on the fast track to
be signed. The Committee asked the lobbyists to find out more information
regarding this bill.

IV.

Next Meeting Date - The next meeting date is February 6, 2007, at 4:00 p.m.

V.

Adjournment There being no objection, Chairman Pulliam adjourned the meeting
at 5:05p.m.

