2021-07-13
Civil Rights Committee
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: All right, folks. Let's start coming back to our post here.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I want to talk now.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: That will be the last time I wait. I'm talking to the amendment to the amendment.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Go for it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Woo! OK, is my face not red anymore?
PEGGY CATLIN: You composed yourself in a decent fashion.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was pretty much fun.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Kate, wait for me, though.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'm going to go sit down and be quiet now.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Hey, is Melanie on?
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't see her. She was here.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, I'm on.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I just sent you a quick text message. Can you just say yes or no, if that's
appropriate?
MELANIE SNYDER: That's a yes. I was actually thinking the same thing.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK, good. OK, thank you so much. All right, so I will now call the civil rights
meeting to order. We are convened as of 8:21 PM. And I would respectfully ask everyone attending the
meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
I will just go ahead and do all this. Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under current
circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest

of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practical on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to
the Board of Directors page.
Directors and member of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. OK, Director Williams? Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the
record and to the proceedings. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands
to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing *9. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press
*6.
Note that we will not be taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public interested
in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meetings. For future
meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal, located at the rtd.iqm2.com.
And so we do have guests. And I just want to honor the time of our guests, and so I'm going to switch the
agenda just a bit and actually give the floor over to our guests prior to our recommended action, if no one
has any objections to that. If you do, well, don't.
So if our guests, Amanda and the Honorable Wedgeworth, if you all might be prepared to speak, and I
can go on to what is actually on the agenda for other matters. And you all can maybe talk a bit about the
vaccine work that you did in partnership with RTD. And so I will yield the floor to you.
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Well, thank you, Director Lewis, and thank you and good evening, everyone. I'd
like to acknowledge Madam Chair Catlin, the General Manager and CEO Johnson, and members of the
RTD Board for this opportunity to speak with you tonight. And also, it's very good for me, personally, to
see so many people that I personally know, who I've not seen in a while, to thank you again for this
opportunity.
My name is Elbra Wedgeworth, and I'm here this evening because I'm one of the co-chairs and serve on
the governor's State Outreach Equity Team, and have been doing that work since January of this year.
And basically what we've been doing is working with community organizations, churches, and other
groups and individuals to promote the COVID-19 vaccinations. So we've been working not only here in
Denver County, which I've been assigned, but throughout the state to set up pop-up clinics and working
with other spaces to try to do this work, and also with other collaborative partners.
So the reason why I'm here this evening-- I personally just want to thank Director Lewis because a couple
weeks ago, we had a call with Governor Polis with African American leaders, and Director Lewis asked if
there was a possibility if we could set up some sites along the bus routes in her district. And so we took

the mantle up to do that, and I'm really happy to let you know that we were able to make arrangements to
have two sites.
And we put that information in your packet. And the date that you originally had were wrong. They're June
dates, and I'll go over those real quickly. But we did have two locations within the district, and I wanted to
go over those numbers with you.
We had a total of 150 people that were vaccinated at two locations. One location is Decatur and Federal
on June 23 and June 30, and then also at the Havana-Colfax station. 57 people and 54. So we had a total
of 150 people that were vaccinated, and we're very happy with that, along with the collaboration of
various partners. Not only RTD, but Mile High Connects, Denver Health, COVIDCheck, Colorado Access,
the State Equity Team, and Denver Public Health.
So we also were able to give people gift cards and those types of incentives because as you know now,
with the city of Denver, we're over 72% of first dose vaccination, and the state of Colorado is now over
70%. So what we're doing now is reaching people that are more at the hesitancy phase, where they're
not-- the education is important, or people that they're just not interested or just feel that this isn't for them.
But we still want to make an effort to try to do some strategic outreach with people, and we thought by
working with RTD and hopefully utilizing various locations in your districts, we would be able to do that
outreach component. And so this is a pilot that we tried, and we felt that it went very well. And so I'm just
here tonight to ask if there's any other directors that would be interested or have potential sites that they
think might work. We'd be glad to partner with you on that and to see if we can do that.
I'd like to also Thank Amanda Roy-Bangoy who's my deputy, who's here tonight, too, that helped
coordinate these efforts. But again, thank you to Director Lewis and your leadership and support for doing
this because we really feel that it went very well. So thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. I really, really appreciate it. I appreciate you both being here. And I
would be remiss to not thank you, first of all, and Amanda and the partners that we worked with, but our
general manager and her staff, who were wonderful in beginning to plan some of these things.
And so I would actually like to take the opportunity, as we were focusing on equity populations, to make
sure those are the folks who are getting vaccinated. Because we understood the hesitancy, and focusing
on locations where we know that folks live in those areas who might be from a different, diverse
background.
But I wanted to talk to-- I wanted our general manager to chime in terms of next steps because I want to
be a good Board member. One, I recognize that this is more in the realm of the day to day operations of
the agencies, and I would really like to stay away from the day to day operations of the agency and really
stay on the policy level. And so if you might, General Manager, talk about what next steps you all have
planned.

DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I wanted to thank Honorable
Wedgeworth, as well as Ms. Roy-Bangoy as well for your all work. What I would like to share is that my
team and I are willing and able to participate. It would be great if those requests could come through a
centralized office, which would be mine. And then in turn, we as staff can delegate and help support
efforts across the board, recognizing in some jurisdictions we may need parking permits for park and ride
lots and things of the like.
There's a lot of different staff members that have responsibilities in ensuring this comes to fruition. And in
previous endeavors such as this, I identified one focal person within the organization who then worked in
tandem with other members of the team.
So with that being said, I know both of these dynamic women have my email information, and we can
coordinate through that channel and ensure that we are putting people in the appropriate forums, and
then leveraging the Board office. If, in fact, there's other Board members that are interested in partaking in
this endeavor, we can ensure we shore it up and have ample resources to support people for it. Thank
you.
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: And again, General Manager Johnson, we do want to thank a very heartfelt
thanks to you and your team for helping with this endeavor. We really do. Thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much. If you or Amanda don't have anything else to add, I might go
to our directors. I see direct Catlin might have a question or comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just have a comment, and I wanted to say, Miss Wedgeworth, I knew that you would
go on to many more meaningful things. For those Board members who do not know, Elbra Wedgeworth
chaired the Denver Union Station Project Authority Board that I had the pleasure of serving on with her.
And she did amazing work back then, and that's a large part of the reason that we have the crown jewel
of TOD downtown, is to her credit.
And so I just wanted to let newer Board members know that she played such a significant role, and that
it's great to see you again, by the way. But what you're doing now is really, really grassroots and very,
very meaningful. And I don't know if I have any areas of my district that have reluctant people to get
vaccinated, but I think I will reach out and just see if there are some areas that we can focus on. Because
this is great, great work.
And so I just wanted to thank you, I want to thank General Manager CEO Johnson and staff, and Director
Lewis, I want to thank you, too, for stepping up in this important role. And you were a reluctant recipient of
the vaccine, and I think you are really a great example of how we can persuade people to do this for their
own safety and those of their loved ones. So thank you both very much. It's really great work.

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin. I really appreciate that. You know, I actually got my
vaccine because I said I didn't want to be hypocritical with telling people to get their vaccines and I was
still unvaccinated. So that was really the catalyst. So I appreciate that. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to thank you all for all the work
that you've done. This is an amazing project. I did also want to, for the public record, say I believe there is
a lot of vaccine hesitancy, actually, in my district, and I probably will be reaching out through email, then.
And just to clarify-- so through the work that you're doing, you are helping answer those unknown
questions for those who are, at this point-- OK, perfect.
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Yes. In fact, CDPHE has a champions program which is focused on residency.
And they have physicians and other individuals that are willing to speak to organizations or individuals in
terms of educating them about the vaccine itself, why it's so important, and answering any questions that
you have. We basically have had those types of conversations and video calls with churches, we have
one, hopefully, with the Salvation Army and their leadership. So we're prepared to help you in those
matters.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Because anecdotally, I do not think I have the tools because I haven't been
able to convince my vaccine hesitant converses. So excellent. Yes, I think District G would love to benefit
from this program. And thank you all again for all your hard work.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Director Bouquet, and I encourage you to work directly with our general
managers and Elbra as you all move forward. So thank you so much. Director Guissinger, you have the
floor.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. Just a quick question. Do you do it all with the Johnson &
Johnson single dose?
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Well basically, we still provided all three. And it really depends on-- we work in
partnership with Denver Health, but based on locations, we might also have to work with CDPHE
because Denver Health only covers Denver County. But we will basically make all three available if that's
what's needed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you all so much, both you and Ms. Roy-Bangoy and Director Lewis.
Great thinking. I'd be happy to check to see if it makes sense to participate in my district and move it
forward. Thanks.
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Beautiful. Thank you so much. Really appreciate it, Director Guissinger. Director
Wedgeworth-- or Honorable Wedgeworth. I've just put you on the Board. If you'd like to come, please
come.

ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Well, Thank you. I'd love to be on, but I'm retired, officially.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You might have a few things going on, huh?
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Thank you. Well, as Doug probably knows, I just have my finger in, not my
whole hand.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Smart woman.
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Thank you very much for the opportunity. We really appreciate it very much.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much. And we really appreciate you staying around and waiting until
8:35 to present this to us. And thank you for your time and your patience.
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Thank you, no problem.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Enjoy your night.
ELBRA WEDGEWORTH: Thank you. Bye-bye
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Take care. Thank you. All right, so we have one recommended action. It's the
September 2021 service change proposal, the service equity analysis. And it reads, for the Board of
Directors to adopt the Title VI Service Equity Analysis report to comply with federal laws, regulations, and
guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Do I have a movement?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Bouquet.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Oh, sorry about that. And I will yield the floor to staff to provide any pertinent
information or presentation on we should what we should know about this topic.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So first, thank you very much, Madam Chair. We have this evening Zamy Silva, who
is present. She leads our civil rights division. And our most recent addition to the team, who you all met
previously, that is a subject matter expert in this realm, we have Carl Green, who serves as our Transit

Equity Manager, who will take you through the service equity analysis utilized for the proposed service
changes. And so with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Green for his presentation. Thank you very kindly,
ma'am.
CARL GREEN: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Good evening, Madam Chair and fellow Board of
Directors. Again, my name is Carl Green Jr., and I serve as RTD's Transit Equity Manager of the Civil
Rights Division.
So tonight, again, I'll be presenting on the Title VI analysis for the proposed September service change.
And I will tee up the presentation. Just give me a moment.
All right, so as noted in the Board report, the Federal Transit Administration Title VI circular directs transit
agencies of the requirement to perform a service equity analysis for major—
DEBRA JOHNSON: Excuse me, Mr. Green, we cannot see your presentation at this time.
CARL GREEN: I appreciate that. Be nice to share my screen.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Didn't want to interrupt, but hey, I was just like, we need to see something, sir.
CARL GREEN: I'll save the imagination for next time. Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Can
everyone see the screen? Excellent, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Green, we can see your-- oh, there you go. Thank you.
CARL GREEN: Perfect. So I'll go ahead and press Rewind and I'll start again. So as noted in the Board
report, the Federal Transit Administration Title VI circular directs transit agencies of the requirements to
perform a service equity analysis for major service changes that last longer than 12 months to ensure that
the changes do not unfairly impact people of color and low-income populations.
This analysis brought before the Board is for year awareness, consideration, and ultimate approval. So
prior to going over the equity analysis process and findings, I'll pass it over to Jessie Carter, acting Senior
Manager for Service Development, to go over the proposed September service changes.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. thank you, Carl, and thank you, Chair Lewis and General Manager Debra
Johnson. I am just going to be brief in describing the overall service change for September, which
modifies the current COVID-19 service plan by increasing the level of service offered to RTD's customers,
in line with changes in ridership, stakeholder, and customer requests.
Overall, this is a 6% to 7% change in our service hours, with many of the changes being modification of
services, as you see in the table. And those services-- we're looking at adjusting service patterns to be

more like what they were prior to COVID, with weekday service patterns, emulating longer spans of
service, and higher frequency.
There are also six services that we are proposing to reinstate, and thereby taking them off of their
suspended status. So that, in a nutshell, describes the actual service change. I know you've had a chance
to review your Board material for the upcoming operations segment. So we can get into deeper
discussions on the individual service proposals in that one. So with that, I return to you, Carl.
CARL GREEN: Thank you, Jessie. So the authority that sets the legal precedent, which Madam Chair
mentioned earlier, is Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which states no person in the United States
shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the
benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial
assistance.
All public systems receiving federal financial assistance are required to have a Title VI program. The FTA
Title VI circular provides the directives to ensure that transit agencies are upholding these insurances
under Title VI. And the RTD Board adopted Title VI program establishes the policies, standards, and
framework for carrying out the work by staff at a programmatic level. A key evaluation tool which is of
relevance today is the service equity analysis.
This slide provides an overview of the equity analysis, decision making process for fare and major service
changes. At a high level, the analysis includes the determination of whether a change results in a major
service change. If the answer to that question is yes, the changes will be assessed using established
thresholds to measure the impacts on Title VI protected populations, i.e. minority and low-income
populations, which is also defined as equity populations for the purpose of the analysis.
And lastly, if the findings result in a potential adverse effect for equity populations, then an evaluation of
alternatives will be considered to minimize mitigate or avoid the impacts.
By definition, RTD's major service change policy is a 25% addition or reduction in the service hours of any
route that would remain in effect for 12 or more months. As noted on page 8 of the equity analysis report,
the major service change results are as follows. 18 out of the 31 met the major service change threshold
for service increases, all of which were included in the equity analysis.
The disparate impact and disproportionate burden policies, which will be referred to from here on out as
Title VI policies, provide the methodology and thresholds for the evaluation of possible impacts on equity
populations. Specifically, the policy states, equity populations shall receive no less than 10% of nonequity populations for major service increases. This is illustrated conceptually in the image to the right.
If we refer to the blue bar, we can see that the non-minority population around a route is receiving 25% of
the benefit of the increase. With utilizing that 10% threshold, there would be a potential disparate impact if

the minority population around that same route is less than 22.5%. Anything above that 22.5% would be
the no disparity range.
The threshold calculation of 22.5% is shown below the image, where 2.5%, or 10% of that 25%, is
subtracted from the 25% non-minority population. And that 10% threshold is also applied to compare lowincome and higher income populations. So what I walked you all through conceptually is more or less the
calculations and the assessment of whether or not a service change or a major service increase would
fall under that disparate impact or disproportionate policy threshold.
Taking a deeper dive into the methodology, the thresholds are applied at the route-level analysis. And
then similar to the COVID service reductions image, the image to the right provides a visual depiction
where a quarter of a mile buffer around a route enables the ability to assess the service area population
using US Census data at the block level.
And looking at the second bullet point, a network analysis was also completed to better understand the 18
major service changes occurring across the network, as well as the associated impacts on equity
populations. A network analysis provides that further understanding of the changes to the service levels in
an aggregate fashion. Simply noted, the network analysis provides a more holistic look at determining the
systemwide magnitude of impacts of the June 2021 to the proposed September 2021 service changes.
The results of the route-level can also be found on pages 8 through 9 and appendix B of the equity
analysis report. The results indicate that 15 of the routes met the threshold for potential disparate impact,
and three of the routes met the threshold for a potential disproportionate burden.
The route-level analysis findings provide the baseline for understanding the potential impacts for major
service changes using that 10% threshold prescribed in the RT Title VI policies. However, there are a few
points of considerations or key findings that should be factored in.
The first is, if you refer to the percentage difference noted in the route analysis tables on pages 20
through 27 of Appendix B, you can see that the delta between equity and non-equity populations are not
substantially different, and most of the equity populations are within a half percentage point of non-equity
populations as far as being positively impacted from the service additions.
Furthermore, of the 18 routes with the major service changes, all but one are serving above average for
minority and low-income populations using the service district average. And for everyone's edification, the
service district average for minority is 35.4%, and the low-income service district average is 16.8.
And then lastly, I wanted to mention that 11 out of the 13 routes that did not meet the major service
change threshold are serving equity populations more so than non-equity populations. So out of the 31,
there's 18 that met the major service change threshold, which is the analysis before you here, or the
route-level, but I also wanted to make note that the remaining 13 are serving above the service district
average for minority and low-income populations.

And then lastly, for the last bullet point for the network analysis, it provides a more in-depth and holistic
assessment of the entire service change proposal assessment, which I'll get into in the next slide.
So as identified on pages 9 through 15 of the report, the system-level analysis indicates that there are no
adverse impacts when comparing the service increases, comparing equity populations compared to nonequity populations. And pulling up the second bullet point, equity groups represented at a higher
population share than the district averages. So meaning that the service increases are benefiting minority
and low-income populations more compared to non-equity populations.
So specifically I wanted to call out, when we're considering the demographics within the service areas of
the routes with major service changes, as a proportion of the district overall, both minority and low-income
populations receive a greater increase in service, or are positively impacted compared to non-equity
populations.
So there was a nearly positive 2% benefit for minority and a positive 6% for low incomes when comparing
against non-minority and higher income populations, respectively. This is important to note and two factor
in because the system-wide analysis takes a more holistic view, as previously mentioned.
So as we draw our conclusions and the summary of findings, which is found on pages 15 through 17 of
the report, none of the proposed changes involve reductions in service. All service changes in this run
board were additions or service increases. And this is also important to note, specifically when applying
the Title VI analysis to the proposal.
The answer to the question, are equity populations being denied the benefits of, or are they worse off with
the September service change-- the answer to that question is no. Although some of the major service
changes resulted in a potential disparate impact or disproportionate burden at the route level, Title VI
concerns at the network level are minimal when comparing the changes from the June 2021 to the
proposed September service changes.
And the last two bullets, just wanted to also emphasize again here that 17 of the routes are serving
service district average for equity groups at a higher level. And again here, there is a positive 2% for
minority and a positive 6% for low-income populations. Therefore, just to sum things up, there are no
system-level disparate impacts or disproportionate burdens found related to this proposal.
And to summarize the presentation, I covered the Title VI policies, the methodology, findings, and overall
implications as it relates to the Title VI service equity analysis, which meets the Federal Transit
Administration requirements for making the Board aware and for you all to consider the analysis. Given
that there are minimal Title VI concerns, all routes are categorized as service increases and there's a
greater increase in service for equity populations, staff recommends that the Board approves of the Title
VI service equity analysis.

And at this time, I will now open it up for the Board discussion and any questions that you all may have.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much, Mr. Green, Mr. Carter, and Ms. Silva. Really appreciate the
thorough and meaningful presentation that you all have presented before us. So at this time, I would ask
those directors who wish to speak to raise your virtual hands, and I will call you in turn.
First, I don't know if there are any Directors who are calling into the meeting, but if you wish to speak,
please press *9. And so let's see who might have their hand up. It appears that I have Director Sloan. You
have the floor.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you so much, Mr. Green. This provides really
excellent background information for the directors. So again, thank you for this thorough work.
I have just one procedural question about how staff works on this. Do you do only one equity analysis, or
is there a back and forth between planning and the equity group? For instance, one set of changes just
did show disparate impact and disproportionate burden, so it goes back to planning for another cut at it,
or is it a one time thing? Is the equity analysis a one-time thing?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Mr. Green, you have the floor.
CARL GREEN: Madam Chair, thank you. Director Sloan, that's a great question, and I appreciate it. So to
answer it directly, it's an iterative process where transit equity and the service development team are
working in tandem, where Jessie and his team will provide the initial changes for the September service
change, for example, and then in turn I will receive that and provide a preliminary assessment of that
service proposal.
And if there are any eyebrows raised or red flags, then I will inform him of the findings, and we will make
any modifications to the extent possible. And I'll also offer it up to Jessie if you would like to add to that.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Mr. Carter, you have the floor.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to have to say that Mr. Green comes off as a very
nice guy, but he can twist your arm pretty hard, but have to be honest with that. No, actually Carl is
correct. We had our initial service plan, but you'll notice when you look in the Operations Committee,
there are a number of route changes that were added after the initial plan and before it went to public
hearing.
And some of those changes are as a result of making adjustments to provide a better mix and to provide
more opportunity for the Title VI community to actually have additional services. So we did make some
modifications to the actual service plan in accordance to advisement coming from the Title VI Manager.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Great, thank you. I appreciate the answer.

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Director Sloan. Any additional questions or comments? Director Sloan,
does that complete your questions?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, it does.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK, thank you. Any other directors that have any comments or questions?
Wonderful, that's how we like it. All right, so I will, considering there is no additional discussion, go ahead
and put this forward for a vote. So we did have Director Catlin as the movement and Director Bouquet as
the second time.
And I will pause to see if there are any no votes. And so if there are any no votes, please do let me know.
Mr. Carter, you would like to vote no? I'm just joking with you. This is your work. You've got to support
your own work here, man.
All right, so we will move forward. It looks like-- I think we're just missing Director Dishell, and so that's 14
yes and 1 absent, which is Director Dishell. Good job, you all. Thanks for being thorough and easy going.
So I will open the floor for any additional discussion items. Actually, we actually don't have any discussion
items. Forgive me. So there are no discussion items on the agenda this evening. If there are any other
matters that folks would like to discuss, please raise your hand and I will call on you in turn. No? Easypeasy lemon squeezy.
All right, the next meeting date will be October 5. The presentation-- I think the agenda actually says
October 12, and so ignore that. It is October 5. Ms. McManus, it looks like you might have a question?
Comment?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I saw that we had a-- Director Whitmore's hand was up.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I am so sorry, Director Whitmore. I did not see you. Thank you, Ms. McManus.
TROY WHITMORE: I didn't use my virtual hand, pardon me. I'm just a problem child tonight. I just had
one statement. I just found that information very helpful. So thank you, Carl. Very quickly presented and
professionally presented. And any time you need to twist Jessie Carter's arm, go for it.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Violence. You're choosing violence this afternoon, huh, Director Whitmore? OK.
Thank you all so much. Seeing no other discussion, the meeting is adjourned as of 8:56 PM.
And Director Williams, I will turn the floor over to you. If you'd like to take a e-minute-- is that five? OK, a
five-minute break. So come back in five minutes, or we'll just start without you. I'm just kidding. See you
all later.

