Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 10, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2008
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez, Second Vice Chair
Busck, Secretary McMullen; Directors Chacon, Daly,
Ruchman

Board Members Absent:

Director Tayer

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue

Others Present:

Michael Jones-Allison Transmission, Holman CarterATU, Jeff Lieb-Denver Post

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
a. Resolution for APTA Customer Service Peer Review
MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion
to move the Resolution for APTA
Customer Service Peer Review
forward to the full Board Agenda.
Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:
II.

The motion passed Unanimously.

July Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella, General Manager reviewed the items on the agenda. There
were no questions or concerns.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5


Unanimous Consent


Authorization to Appoint RTD Representatives for Denver Union
Station Project Authority
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Chairman of the RTD Board of Directors appoint two RTD
representatives to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (the
Authority) Board of Directors. The Authority will be a non-profit
corporation formed under the authority of the City and County of
Denver for the purposes of issuing revenue bonds, receiving
revenues and paying expenses for the Denver Union Station
project.



Conveyance of Easements or Leases to the USNC for Purposes of
Creating Denver Union Station Metropolitan District
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the General Manager be authorized to convey five easements or
leases to USNC or its designees for the purposes of creating
elector’s parcels for an election for the formation of the Denver
Union Station (DUS) Metropolitan Districts (the Met Districts)
which will include a management and four taxing districts. A
TABOR election will also be held. The Met Districts will be
authorized to establish mill levies for payment of debt service for
capital projects and for their operation and maintenance at DUS.



Proposed Amendment to CDOT/RTD IGA for Funding for US36
BRT Phase 2 Final Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to
proceed with an amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) with CDOT to fund the preparation of the Final
Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the US36
Corridor. RTD’s total funding share for this action for the US36
BRT Phase 2 would be for 25 percent of the cost of preparation
of the FEIS and Record of Decision (ROD), not to exceed
$1,000,000. This action is necessary to continue the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process, and to develop and
assess the impacts of the Preferred Alternative and to prepare the
ROD.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a
transfer of $1,000,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve
to fund the preparation of the FEIS and ROD. This will accelerate
funding that was provided for the corridor in 2009 in the
FasTracks Financial Plan.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5



Recommendation for Contract Award to Kumar and Associates,
Inc. for the FasTracks Owner’s Materials Verification Testing
Services Contract
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or
his designee, to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to the most qualified proposer, Kumar and Associates,
Inc., in an estimated not-to-exceed amount of $5,000,000 for
Owner’s Materials Verification Testing Services for FasTracks.
This is a multi-year contract spanning 2008 – 2013, with the
provision for additional five one-year options. The work scope
will be negotiated annually to allow flexibility in supporting the
FasTracks projects, and funded through project budgets that will
require separate RTD Board actions. Funds for the initial contract
award of $50,000 are contained in the 2008 RTD Budget for the
West Corridor.



Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS) (CAD/AVL) Sole Source
Fixed End Upgrade
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to award a sole-source contract to
Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS) in the amount not-toexceed $2,700,000. The procurement is for fixed-end hardware
and software system updates to the agency’s computer aided
dispatch and automatic vehicle location system (CAD/AVL).



Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account
Signature Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”



Modification to RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Investment Policy
(the “Policy”), modified to change the title “Senior Manager of
Finance” to that of “Chief Financial Officer” and to authorize Terry
L. Howerter, as Chief Financial Officer, to transact investment
business on behalf of the District (please see Appendix I to
Policy).



State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract
No. 17-DX-001 with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, which

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5
is an agreement for state legislative liaison services for one year
(July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009) at a cost of $95,000 and
for (4) additional one-year options to renew at prices specified in
the Contract, each option period contingent upon approval by the
Board of Directors.


Recommended Action
 Resolution for APTA Customer Service Peer Review
 Disposition of Land in Fort Lupton (from Executive Session)

MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion
to move the July Board agenda to the
full Board meeting on July 15h, 2008.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:
III.

The motion passed Unanimously.

DUS Special Board Appointees
This item had been discussed briefly by Cal Marsella during the briefing
from the July Board agenda. Director Daly requested information and this
was provided to him. Director Chacon asked if the CFO’s learning curve
would be too hard to assume this appointed position. Cal Marsella
responded he did not think so as his primary role will be looking at the
financial and investment numbers to make sure they made sense.
Director Busck requested a full job description in January of the appointee
positions.

IV.

APTA Annual Conference (San Diego October 6-8)
Chair Kemp indicated that the reason for this discussion item was to get
the Executive Committee perspective on allowing Board members including
the term limited Board members to attend APTA Annual in October, given
that RTD is being recognized as the Transit Agency of 2008. All of the
Board Members agreed it was appropriate to allow the term limited
Directors to travel assuming they had funds in their travel budget. Director
Martinez indicated a precedent had been set in previous years where the
full Board attended a conference when Cal Marsella was recognized.
Chair Kemp directed Paula Perdue to prepare a memo to this effect for the
Board members.
Director McMullen recommended that there should be accountability from
attendance at these conferences (i.e. reports, etc). Director Chacon
suggested an alternative to a report could be a de-briefing that is done at

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on July 10, 2008, 12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5
the next meeting focused around what new ideas you picked up.
Chair Kemp indicated he would work with Paula Perdue to integrate an
item on the meeting agenda for de-briefing from conferences.
V.

State Lobbyists Selection Update
Director Daly shared with the Committee that there were two candidates
interviewed for this position. They had followed a process and used a
score card to rank them. Both teams did well and while Team Valdez
presented well, this was a new team that had not worked together and the
BrandeBerry team had a proven track record with RTD.
Director McMullen expressed a concern that did not have anything to do
with the selection but the process used to roll this out. He shared that
there was no general knowledge of this interviewing team or the
Committee selection process. He also expressed concerns
around the diversity issue and the value of obtaining diverse viewpoints.
He would like to see the questions asked of the candidates.
Chair Kemp emphasized that the existing process was followed including
proper notice and posting.
Directors McMullen and Chacon argued that a revisit of the process is
needed to ensure inclusivity.

VI.

Other Matters
Director Busck recommended that the new Board member orientation
should include tours and more time learning the various operations of the
agency. Director Ruchman added it might be good to have some in-house
training programs for new Directors as well as explore some trade-off
arrangements with other agencies. Board members felt it might be good to
have some type of mentoring program and include getting familiar with the
ATU.
Chair Kemp indicated he would take these ideas under consideration.

VII.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:05 p.m.

