2025-09-30
Board Meeting
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Good evening. I'll now call the Tuesday, September 30 RTD Board meeting
to order. We're convened as of 5:34 PM. I'd respectively ask everyone present to remain silent and those
joining online to remain muted, unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly
gatherings, please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely
via Zoom and will still be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com.
And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we're also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office, at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish.
I'll now lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America
and to the Republic for which it stands. One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
I'll now read our land acknowledgment. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which
our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other
contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who
have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May
this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity
of the Native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions in
the District as we move forward.
In a moment, I'm going to call the roll. However, before I do so, I want to acknowledge that this is Director
Peggy Catlin, whose service on this Board will be concluding in mid October. This will be her last full Board
meeting as a Director, and I have set up some time, during Other Matters, for Directors to share out on
Director Catlin's service. Thank you, Director, for all that you have done for this agency.
I'll now call the roll. Director Benker. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwig.
IAN HARWIG: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha is absent [INAUDIBLE]. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. I have 14 Directors present and one absent. We do have a quorum.
I do want to note that due to the significant public interest we do anticipate on a number of items, the
Executive Committee adjusted our agenda for this evening to ensure the Board debate and vote on the two
Access-on-Demand-related action item, which will occur earlier in the evening than normal. These items
are the Access-on-Demand program modifications and the Access-on-Demand contract extensions. These
items will be taken up shortly after our public comment period ends. To those two action items, the Executive
Committee also moved forward in the agenda a discussion on the finishing FasTracks report.
I'll now go forward with a Statement of Employee Appreciation. The Regional Transportation District Board
of Directors recognizes that the RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every day, RTD
employees do extraordinary things to make lives better through connections. We honor their work of
delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult

and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our profound
gratitude, commitment, and support toward all RTD employees. Thank you all.
Moving on to our retiree awards. One of the greatest honors of serving on this Board is the privilege of
recognizing and celebrating our RTD retirees. Today, we will pause to express our heartfelt gratitude to the
dedicated employees who have given their time, talents, and commitment to this agency. Their service has
not only supported our mission but has also left a lasting legacy within our community.
It is with deep appreciation that I'll now read the names of those who have retired since June. Jose Martinez,
Jr., Street Supervisor, 30 years. Mac McIntosh, Senior Labor Relations Generalist, 15 years. Matthew
Richey, Procurement Specialist, 26 years. David Svenby, telecom supervisor, 29 years. Although our
retirees are not able to join us for this evening, we extend our deepest gratitude for their years of hard work,
unwavering commitment, and dedicated service to RTD. Their contributions will be remembered and valued
for years to come. I would now like to offer a round of applause for them.
Next, we are moving on to public participation, which is open to anyone who would like to address the
Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by
those who are participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when
your name is called. If you have not already done so-- if you're not already signed up to speak and would
like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any additional speakers.
For those attendees attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise
your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're
dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. And please bear in mind that by participating in this
process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded then your comments will have to be
submitted via writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would
like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names and will have up to three minutes
to provide their comments.
Our first speaker of the evening is Sara Visser.
SARA VISSER: Good evening. My name is Sara Visser. This is my daughter, Nina. Thank you for the
opportunity to speak here tonight. I know there is an important and much discussed issue on your agenda
regarding RTD's Access-on-Demand service. And while I'm here on a different topic, I believe it is also one
of real importance to the community.
I appreciate your time as I bring forward a request concerning RTD's eastbound Number 6 bus, specifically
the timing of its stop at Sixth Avenue and Clermont Street. I am the parent of a student at Hill Campus,
Nina, who's with me here today, who also rides the bus, the Number 6. Hill is a Denver Public Schools
middle school just two blocks south of that stop. Hill serves about 600 students, and every single school
day, nearly 30 of them depend on the Eastbound Number 6 to get home after the final bell.
Here's the problem. Hill lets out at 4:00 PM, but the bus passes the 6TH and Clermont stop at about the
same time. Students are forced to sprint to try to make it. If they miss it, the next bus doesn't arrive until

4:28. That's a wait of more than 30 minutes on a busy Sixth Avenue, and sometimes dangerous area, right
as rush hour is building. Neither option, sprinting across a busy street during school pickup or waiting
unsupervised for half an hour is safe for our kids.
Over the past several weeks, Hill staff and I have monitored the stop and tracked the numbers. In fact, the
principal monitored for 10 straight days to see what it looked like in actual time. I'm happy to provide that
data, if needed. On any given day, between 16 and 30 students rely on that bus. Parents and school
neighbors have called the school with concerns about long waits for the kids, especially as the days get
shorter and darker and when bad weather hits. In fact, one family has arranged for all three of their children
to go to Hill to leave class early every single day, cutting short their learning by 15 minutes each day, so
they can catch the earlier bus and safely arrive at their final stop and then home.
For other students, missing the bus may mean wandering the neighborhood until the later pickup. That's
not safe for them, and it places a burden on Hill staff who are already volunteering extra hours beyond their
contracts just to provide some supervision at the stop. On days when no one is available, those kids are
left entirely on their own.
The solution is simple. If the Eastbound Number 6 could be adjusted to arrive 6th sixth and Clermont just 7
to 10 minutes later, or wait at the stop for a little while, the timing would align with the school's dismissal.
That one small change would allow dozens of students to safely catch the bus, avoid the dangerous sprint
or long wait, and begin their journeys home right away without stressing. This is a modest request but one
with an outsized impact on the safety, learning, and peace of mind of Hill students, families, and neighbors.
On behalf of everyone at Hill, thank you for your consideration, and a special thank you to Director Nicholson
for your responsiveness and guidance in helping us bring this issue before the Board. Again, a 7- to 10minute adjustment to the Eastbound Number 6 would make a world of difference in the safety and wellbeing of Hill Middle school students.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Sara.
SARA VISSER: Nina, would you like to say anything? OK. Thank you so much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker will be remote. Based on our Board bylaws, we do give
privilege to currently elected officials. And from my understanding, Senator Winter has joined us.
FAITH WINTER: Hi, everyone. Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
FAITH WINTER: Excellent. It is so good to see you, and thank you for taking the time and opportunity to
make public comment so easy and accessible. I was at a dentist appointment, helping my daughter get a
root canal, and now I'm here, 10 minutes later. And so thank you very much for making it accessible to not
just me but other members of the public.
I do want to echo what the last member just said. One of the reasons that we had a youth voice on the
Youth Advisory Accountability Committee and the RTD Accountability Committee was to try and align some
of those schedules with the school districts. I know it sounds like it's not working very well in Denver. It's
not working very well in Adams 12. It's one of the pieces of feedback we receive routinely from our
constituents.

But today, I'm really here to talk about my disappointment in RTD's proposed changes to access to Accesson-Demand services due to significant impacts on the disabled community. We need transparency,
reliability, and equitable service for all in the RTD service area, including those with mobility challenges.
This 650% increase cost burden for Access-on-Demand patrons and reduced ride subsidies will harm our
community. The reduced service hours proposed will further punish patrons of accessible transit services
that have off-peak working hours or medical appointments.
Many essential tasks are already burdensome for many who use Access-on-Demand services, and these
proposed changes will add another layer of unfair challenges to these essential life activities. As a result,
riders may have to quit jobs, miss vital services and medical appointments, or choose between basic needs
in order to access freedom and movement across the region. Additionally, pandemic era cuts have not
been restored to pre-pandemic levels, so Access-on-Demand services have become an essential lifeline
for the disabled community.
I'm asking you to vote no today on the proposed fare increase. Currently, the RTD Accountability Committee
is meeting with members of the disability community serving on that committee, members of the public,
members of the youth, economic development experts, budget experts. And to take such a rash decision
and rush it through tonight is way beyond premature.
Let the Accountability do their work. Please give adequate access to the public, to the disability community.
I've heard from many, many constituents, a very large coalition, which we are submitting tonight two letters.
One is from many senators and representatives that represent the RTD region and really want to make
sure that we're maintaining access. And each and every one of us have heard from our communities and
our disabled communities that this will hurt.
And in addition, you will hear from members of the public and the coalition that there was not adequate
input received in order to take this action tonight. Please let us do our work, get access from the community,
get access from the public, and get access and recommendations from the accountability community. There
is absolutely no reason to rush into this rash decision tonight.
Thank you so much for your service. I know this is an incredibly hard job. You serve long, long hours without
a lot of thanks, and it takes a lot of work to care so deeply about transit. So thank you for your service.
Thank you for your work. Thank you for your accessibility tonight. And thank you for allowing me to make
comments. Have a great evening.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Senator. Our next speaker is Matt Brady.
MATT BRADY: I'm Matt Brady, a 43-year Denver resident of the La Alma-Lincoln Park neighborhood on its
west side. At this time-- it's just a short walk from Colfax Avenue, 13th Avenue, 8th Avenue, and Burnham
Yard. For 31 years, live just one block from the 10th and Osage light rail station. I was involved in the
planning of the light rail before construction started on the first line going through my neighborhood and the
lead resident on the developments in my neighborhood, a recipient of several civic awards for my work in
Denver.
My issue is the 8th Avenue Denver that should concern all Board members and RTD management. The
Vibrant Denver bond package on the ballot, to be voted on over a month from now, has just two lines listing
work to be done on bridges and viaducts, with no specific details. This work includes removing the 8th
Avenue viaduct so 8th Avenue goes straight across the light rail tracks to facilitate more street access to
the Broncos stadium.

Light rail on the east side of Burnham Yard has the most scheduled lines in the entire RTD rail system. Last
Wednesday's neighborhood meeting, Evan Dreyer, Chief Assistant to Mayor Johnson, discussed the bond
package. I questioned Evan on the 6th and 8th Avenue viaducts and asked him why it was just as safe for
8th Avenue traffic to go straight across the light rail tracks as now going over light rail.
I also asked him if he knew how many north and southbound rail trips per day went under 8th Avenue
viaduct, and this put Evans on the defensive. Said he did not know. I gave him the answer, 421 a day, or
25 per hour during the main hours of the day, and told about two fatalities at the 13th Avenue, where it goes
across light rail at street level, a man on a bicycle and a Denver Police Officer on his motorcycle going to
an emergency. There would be a police officer alive today if 13th Avenue also had an overpass.
8th Avenue has 8 to 10 times more traffic than 13th Avenue. 8th Avenue needs to go over all rail lines. The
viaduct was completed in '89 as the replacement on a previous viaduct, as well as Colfax [INAUDIBLE]
viaduct's replacement earlier in the 1980s.
Every time there's an incident on light rail, there's a stoppage for up to several hours. Asking voters to
approve funding to make traffic less safe should be a non-starter. I am a no vote. And I want to thank you
for your time. My contact information will be on the copy I'm leaving. Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Matt. Our next speaker is former RTD Director Jaime Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Good evening, Directors. My name is Jaime Lewis and I am the transit advisor for the
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. For the last 18 months, the subject of AOD has been discussed. You
have received no less than 200 verbal testimonies and input from major disability groups like Atlantis
Community, National Federation of the Blind, and the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition.
It is a fact that all transit, no matter how big or small, is subsidized. It is also a fact that you have a fiduciary
responsibility to receive revenue as practical as possible. However, there is a recommended $6.50 fare on
the table tonight, which is excessive, unmanageable for many who use AOD, and is a downright insult to
our community, considering the 18 months of testimony that you received.
CCDC is advocating for $4.50 fare with a $2.25 LiVE fare. This would make the system compatible with
Access-a-Ride users. CCDC also strongly advocates for a comprehensive-- not enough hands here-comprehensive operational plan that will help AOD and AAR complement each other. Decisions you make
tonight could lower the on-time performance for Access-a-Ride using our WAV vehicles to supplement
AOD, will put you in conflict with the Federal Transit Administration rules. In other words, you cannot rob
Peter to pay Paul. This is why a comprehensive operational plan is needed.
Another issue that needs to be addressed is why our PUC, the Public Utilities Commission, is not requiring
TMCs to provide WAVs in their fleet. A strong analysis should be used to influence the legislature and other
powers to be to put the pressure on the PUC to require them to serve all of our community, perhaps a WAV
vehicle for every 100 drivers. There are currently 8,000 Uber Lyft drivers in our current region. This will
require you, the advocates and users you see here tonight, to work together to make our paratransit the
best it can be in the nation. Let's work together. Let's do something special. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Jamie. Our next speaker is James Flattum.
JAMES FLATTUM: All right. Thank you, Chair Bouquet. Thank you, RTD Board, for the opportunity to
speak. My name is James Flattum. I'm with Greater Denver Transit.

We submitted a letter to this body this afternoon on the first and primary topic of focus. I'd like to stand in
solidarity with my friends and allies in ADAPT, CDC, and other disability community members who are
calling on RTD for a no vote in a fundamental change on what is being called for with a significant fare
increase for riders with disabilities who use the Access-on-Demand service.
Just to express some personal sympathy for this Board, right, I think the political position that you have
been put in tonight is horrific. The idea that there was a paratransit review that we expected that was going
to hopefully look at the services comprehensively has not been done. And fundamentally, what you're being
asked to do is vote on something that it seemed like staff wanted to do many, many months or many years
ago, which is to put a upper limit on what the financial burdens for the agency would be for Access-onDemand, rather than doing what we know needs to be done, which is to look at the need. And I think when
you look at this audience tonight, it's undeniable how important and how sincere this need is.
So what I ask you to do is to-- there are ideas that have been put forward by individual Board members I've
spoken with that I think are really important ideas, getting down to the bottom over the next year, looking at
the needs, looking at a programmatic improvement that can be made for the paratransit suite
comprehensively. I think that's a terrific idea.
But first, let's make sure that we're not going to make the journeys for those riders who use Access-onDemand something in the order of magnitude of two, three, sometimes even four times as much as what
the previous Board has agreed would be a reasonable amount of money for a able-bodied rider who today
enjoys the ability to use RTD services every month for $88 a month. The idea that after a successful
community-led victory for RTD to successfully de-Bruce last year, the idea was is that if we de-Bruce, RTD
would be able to keep the funding going for services, that we would not need to make cuts, that the first
group that is going to be experiencing cuts in 2025 is members of the disabled community.
This is a monstrous political problem that we're in right now. And I recognize that the financial constraints
for RTD are real. And I definitely want to acknowledge I had a very, very large core request out, and I want
to appreciate some staff from RTD who put together a very, very good response from my inquiries. So
thank you to the staff, all the folks who worked on that.
But I please just urge the Board is that it sounds like there is already some work that's going to be done
that's going to look at paratransit, or urge management to look at paratransit programmatically. What I urge
this body to do is tonight, please vote no on this. Please do not raise fares for our disabled neighbors in this
community. Let's do the right thing. Let's vote no on this. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, James. Our next speaker is Artis [? Bazan. ?] Apologies for
mispronunciation.
[? ARTIS
BAZAN: ?] Hello, my name is Artis [? Bazan, ?] and I'm totally blind and have used Access-on-Demand for
a couple of years. I really appreciate it because the Access-a-Ride gets you to appointments late. You
cannot accurately determine how much time it's going to take. And so the Access-on-Demand is a very
good service. We can call it the same day when we want to go places. And I use it for everything from
making doctor's appointments, business appointments, church, and seeing friends and shopping. And it's
a very vital service.

Jumping it to $6.50 from 0 is a large jump. I would personally be OK with the $4.50, because that's what
the Access-a-Ride people have to pay, and so that would be more fair. Also, I don't like the limitation of 20.
I'd rather see the 25 that is currently there, because while the majority of our trips are $20 or less, there are
at least two or three a week that are over $20.
Anyway, I'd just like you to consider this. I know budgets can be an issue, and it's hard to make it fair for
everyone, but I'd really ask you to consider dropping it down below the $6.50, because that is really be a
burden for most of the disabled community. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Artis. Our next speaker is Kevin Burkey, [? Berkery. ?]
Apologies.
[? KEVIN
BERKERY: ?] Yes. Good evening. I am married to the previous speaker, so I can't add too too much more,
but came here from Los Angeles two years ago and dealt with their access and RTD problems. And so I
appreciate the hard work you guys have to do.
It's just, a 650% increase and cutting some of the-- cutting from 25 to 20, I always felt that's the easy way
out. Cut the subsidy, raise the price. And that's, to me, always been the easy way out. I understand there
may have to be a price raise. $4.50 is more than reasonable, as that's what the Access people, from what
I understand, pay on the regular Access.
So I would urge the Board to consider the $4.50 increase, if there has to be an increase, consider that and
to keep the $25 limit. Again, thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Kevin. Our next speaker is Chelsea Cook.
CHELSEA COOK: Is the mic good? The mic is good. OK.
Thank you for the opportunity to give public comment to the RTD Board. I'm here. I'm totally blind. I'm going
to talk about Access-on-Demand again.
I tutor math and physics at the University of Denver. Here's how the math will work out with the proposed
changes to the AOD program for me. I make $20.88 an hour tutoring. That's with professional development
experience. With a base fare of $6.50 and a minimum driver gratuity of $3.50, that's $10 one way, $20 both
ways. Meaning, when I go to campus for one student, I will make a total of $0.88 profit. Can anyone live on
$0.88 an hour? If sighted people had to contend with $20 trip prices for gas, there would be civil uproar in
the streets. If I had to take Access-a-Ride for tutoring, I would show up hours late for my students and then
not be able to keep doing the job I love.
Let's continue with math. I know what it's like to try and exist on $700 a month in this capitalist society for
decades. Do you? Even-- there's a pin out-- even with CEO/GM Johnson's $400,000 salary, you don't know
what that's like. Even if I get my dream job as an aerospace engineer, being blind, I will never make that
kind of money. Adding all the disability-related expenses, like the extra ones you are considering with this
proposal, and the never becomes that much more likely. It's definitely never.
Now to physics. Newton's third law states that for every action there's an equal and opposite reaction. This
is the situation RTD put itself in often with voters with the ballot measure 7A last election. Think of the swift
and opposite reaction that will occur when voters discover you have broken your promise to the 79% of

them who voted to let you keep taxpayer money to continue making our lives better by preserving the AOD
program.
In closing, we're not all going away, but we're stressed and tired, tired of fighting for things throughout our
entire lives that everyone else takes for granted. As former Director Claudia Folska said, RTD cracked the
code. You all know what you're doing with transit. Keep that code cracked and your goodwill intact by
making fare changes to this program that don't involve people losing their jobs or making $0.88 an hour.
Better yet, don't rock the boat at all and keep everything the same. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Chelsea. The next speaker is Dave [? Baier. ?]
[? DAVE
BAIER: ?] I have to follow that? Wow. I mean, I'm-- OK. Check, check. Mic check. Check, check. There's a
pattern of relations here. I'm with Chels. That was amazing.
But today I will ask it simply. What's it going to take? In these days of turmoil, strife, and constant negativity,
what's it going to take? In these days of fear, uncertainty, what's it going to take? In these days of wishing
that we, as all people, had freedoms that are being taken away, what's it going to take? In these days of
wanting to be real people with jobs, taxpaying dollars, and hope, what's it going to take?
If I sound like a broken record-- Google it, kids-- what's it going to take? It's a simple question. And it really
should have a simple answer. What's it going to take? In an ideal world, nothing. Leave it alone. If you
absolutely have to make the program different, do the $4.50 fare, if you must, if you feel that it must be this
way to keep the program going. Do not do the $6.50.
What I personally ask, though, is to keep any and all restrictions that have been proposed out, because we,
just like you, are people with dignity. Again, I will ask, what's it going to take? Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Dave. Our next speaker is Susan Meyers.
SUSAN MEYERS: Thank you. We appreciate the opportunity to provide you guys feedback on the Accesson-Demand program. I'm a parent. My son, 36, has disabilities and he's a paratransit user to get to work,
to get to appointments, to get to his social activities.
As the proposal stands now, my husband and I urge you to maintain the Access-on-Demand services to
the entire RTD service area. We ask that you lower the proposed fare from $6.50 to either $4.50 or $2.50.
The increase from no fare to $6.50 is a huge financial burden to this population, as you have been hearing,
most of whom live on Social Security and limited income from part-time jobs.
Number three, maintain the hours for Access-on-Demand to be 24/7 to allow for late shift workers to use
the services. Do not limit the hours for Access-on-Demand based on the needs of the WAV services. And
finally, let's work together. Let's conduct a third- party review of all transit services to gain feedback on
Access-on-Demand, Access-a-Ride, WAV, customer satisfaction and experiences, and what the users
would recommend.
We urge you to consider that the $6.50 fare represents a 650% increase. Are the other RTD fares increasing
by such a large amount? With this population with limited income, this financial burden would be huge. And
please do not limit the Access-on-Demand riders to restrictions based on the Access-a-Ride program hours.

Uber and Lyft are available 24/7. Why can't the people who use Access-on-Demand use them at all hours
and not be restricted by the Access-a-Ride hours? Thank you very much for your consideration.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Susan. Our next speaker, Gabby Gonzalez.
GABBY GONZALEZ: Hi, my name is Gabby Gonzalez and I have IDD. Because of my disability. I have to
use paratransit. It's not a choice. It's the only way I can have independence without relying on my parents.
AOD has been a huge lifesaver for me when Access-a-Ride has been late picking me up for work. Accessa-Ride is not reliable. I'm lucky to have an amazing boss who understands my need to use paratransit.
Next year, I will move into a new apartment that will help me become more independent. It's located in the
service area desert in Broomfield that is only 500 feet from AAR pickup, so I won't have a choice to use
AAR. My only option will be AOD. My income is limited. I'm only able to work four days a week. I'm only
able to work part-time four days a week, and I receive a small amount of SSI each month. My monthly
income is about $1,100. So I have to pay for rent, food, medications, utilities, and medical insurance.
Rising AOD to $6.50 may not sound like much to you, but it will make it so I can't afford to go to work. I
don't have an extra $52, or $208 a month, or $2,496 a year to pay for my transportation. Please keep the
current rate as is and make it affordable for me and my fellow IDD community so we can live our best lives.
Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Gabby. Our next speaker is Corey Gonzalez.
COREY GONZALEZ: Hi my name is Corey Gonzalez. I want to thank the RTD Board Directors for giving
me the opportunity to speak tonight. And first, I want to acknowledge the difficult task that you have before
you tonight. You just met my daughter, Gabby. She's amazing. Every day, we face difficult tasks but
continue to advocate in the hopes for a better life for her when we no longer are alive.
Because of her intellectual and developmental disability, she will always need additional supports. Next
year, she has the opportunity to move to a new planned community that will provide supports she needs to
live independently. This community, the Grove at Cottonwood, is in Broomfield's RTD service desert and
happens to be a mere 500 feet outside Access-a-Ride's current service area.
This illustrates Broomfield's lack of RTD service. We have a 10-square mile service desert. 80% of our
population is not within a half mile of an RTD stop. And we only receive about $0.37 in services for every
dollar that we pay into RTD. We need a process for property owners and service providers to request a
point of deviation beyond the 3/4 mile Access-a-Ride boundary. But that's a discussion for another time I
hope you will all have.
My greater fear is more negative changes to Access-on-Demand in the future, making it less, and my
daughter will be stranded, becoming isolated because of RTD's service desert in Broomfield. The AOD
program is, as it currently stands, has been a life changer for her and for us and for countless others.
While the proposed changes to AOD covering all RTD service areas a step in the right direction, my
daughter's future is still in jeopardy. The $6.50 trip fare is beyond her means. As she told you, she doesn't
have an extra $2,496 a year to pay for transportation, and AOD is her only option. Per the recent article in
the Denver Post, approximately $17 million out of RTD's $1.2 billion annual budget goes towards AOD.
This equates to only 1.4% of RTD's annual budget.

I don't know how, in good conscience, you can be party to the continued marginalization of some of our
most vulnerable individuals. That's what your yes vote will do tonight. I ask the Board to keep AOD program
as is without any changes so that those who need additional help can live better lives and thrive. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Our next speaker is Kristin Hyser.
KRISTIN HYSER: Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Kristin Hyser and I'm the Executive
Director of the Broomfield Housing Alliance, the independent housing authority serving the City and County
of Broomfield.
I want to express strong support for continuing and strengthening the Access-on-Demand program, and
make sure it works for our neighbors it is designed to serve. This service is more than transportation. It
gives people mobility, independence, the chance to participate fully in life. Riders depend on it to get to
jobs, health care, programs, and social connections. For many, it's the difference between isolation and
enjoying a life of purpose and connection.
In Broomfield, we have about 10-square mile transportation service desert. According to the census, about
1,300 residents with disabilities live in this service desert and have no access to transit. Expanding Accesson-Demand to cover the full RTD boundaries would connect these neighbors to opportunity, daily needs,
and our community. And if full coverage is impossible, then, at a minimum, RTD must provide a clear
process for residents to petition for a point deviation so no one is left behind.
We are also concerned about the proposed fare increase. Even discounted fares can be a real barrier for
those who rely on this service. Using publicly available data, expanding coverage and providing deeper
fare relief would cost just about 0.27% of RTD's annual budget. That's a very small investment with a life
changing return for many of those in our community.
So today, we urge RTD to take two modest but critical steps, provide full service area coverage, or create
a fare petition process for point deviations, offer fare relief for those who need it most. These modest
changes are not just about transit, they are about equity, inclusion, and ensuring that all our neighbors,
regardless of ability or income, can stay connected, independent, and thriving.
Thank you for considering these steps and to make transit truly serve everyone in our region and be true
to your mission to make lives better through connections. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker is Fitz Stone.
FITZ STONE: Nice. If it was a snake, it would have bit me. Hi. My name is Fitz Stone. I've spoken to you
guys before. I'm a member of the NFB, and I'm also a staff member at the Colorado Center for the Blind.
I'm the residential manager, so I take care of the apartment buildings where over 30 students live. They all
live on very small incomes. None of them work because they're in school full time.
And I help them get to emergency. If there's an emergency and someone gets hurt, I get them to the
emergency rooms. And it's really important for me to have my Access-on-Demand. And if I had to pay $13
every time I had to take somebody the emergency room, that's huge.
Also, there were cuts made to the RTD service near where my son lives. And without Access-on-Demand
it would be very difficult for me to go see him. So I really would like you to reconsider the proposed changes
to Access-on-Demand. And please, let's work together and figure out a better solution. Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Our next speaker is Maryann [? Migliorelli. ?]
MARYANN MIGLIORELLI: Good evening, ladies and gentlemen of the Board and RTD staff. My name is
Maryann Migliorelli. I'm here as a president of the National Federation of the Blind Boulder Valley Chapter,
but also as an Access-on-Demand user.
I want to start out by saying a few thank yous. Thank you to Director Harwick for committing that in the
coming year, there will be a full examination of paratransit services, not just Access-on-Demand but also
Access-a-Ride. We know that right now, as Access-on-Demand stands, it is a program that is working. I
have not heard anyone who is using that service right now say this is not working or that it isn't good. This
is the cream of the RTD crop right now. And it is also the least expensive service to RTD that RTD provides.
So, math being what it is-- and my friend Chelsea loves her numbers-- it costs less to provide Access-onDemand than it does any other kind of boarding. But yet, this community is being asked to pay more for its
service than any other version of transit.
I don't need to tell you what that feels like. If you are in this room and you believe in Access-on-Demand,
please say aye. If you believe that Access-on-Demand is working currently serving the needs of the
disability population it's intended to serve, say aye.
We were here two months ago. We had a protest. We showed you our signs. We showed you our hearts.
We shared our stories. You know the deal. You've heard our passion. You've even heard a few curses. Not
me. I didn't do that. But we know what the story is about all of us needing good transit, and Access-onDemand is delivering it.
My challenge to you, and my directive to you, is the same as you've been given before, not specifically by
me, but by this community. Right now, our main voice is this voice in this room, and it's not a full-on
conversation. This is one-way dialogue. One-way dialogue is monologue.
We need to have fare studies done on all of the paratransit service with the community involved that is
affected by the decisions. I want to say thank you for taking the time to listen. Thank you for taking the time
to examine your hearts, to examine the numbers, and to do what should be done about maintaining this
service.
I'm not saying we should pay nothing. That was never my intent, and I don't believe it was the intent of
anyone who's here to say we should never pay. Maybe there are some who believe that, but I do believe
everyone else on RTD is paying something. We should pay something, but we shouldn't be paying an
excessive amount more than anyone else pays.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Marianne.
MARYANN MIGLIORELLI: Thank you very much. And do the best work you can.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Our next speaker is Cindy Vaughn. Cindy Vaughn.
CINDY VAUGHN: Hi, I'm Cindy Vaughan. I know I've come and spoken to you all before. And with me is
my support service provider, who is, as you all know my snitch, who'll tell me if you're frowning at me or
falling asleep or throwing tomatoes. In any case, I'm here to tell you, please think what you do.

I have many people that I know who are deaf/blind. I am in that 10% of deaf/blind who work, most of whom
are part-time workers. One of the friends of mine, who's a deaf/blind individual who lives in Thornton, he's
77. He works. He works part-time overnight as a security guard, because he and his wife, they bought the
trailer. They paid it off. They live. They're paying their lot rent, and it went up from $450 to $1,150. And so
he has to work still at 77.
And I have another friend who's deaf/blind. She works part-time and she has medical conditions, many
things that prevent her from working full-time. But she relies completely on Access-on-Demand to get her
to her job site four days a week, plus to get her from one job site to another. She cannot work if she doesn't
have access to this and if it's not affordable, and she won't be able to find a job unless she moves. And she
can't afford to move because part-time work is just not enough to afford to do that, not in this day.
I personally work part-time. I used to work full-time. Actually used to work full-time and another part-time
job. But I had a serious accident some years back and so now I work part-time. And if you change the
service area requirements and make it as restrictive as it is currently for Access-a-Ride, I too would not be
able to do the work that I do.
So I want you to think carefully about what you do. And remember that even as it stands now, Access-onDemand does not cost as much as if I take Access-a-Ride. It gets me there on time. It gets me there reliably.
It costs you less. Why would you take that away? Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker is Ernesto Luca.
ERNESTO LUCA: Good afternoon. My name is Ernesto, and I think that it is important for us to understand
why the service at the beginning started to be $2.00 and then it went from $2.00 to us not paying anything,
and from not paying anything to $6.50. I think it is important for us to know, to have someone that can open
the books and let us know how this is really impacting the service that you had to put now the cost to $6.50.
And another thing to consider is that sometimes during rush hours or now that we're getting into the winter,
the prices on Ubers and Lyfts are going to be surging. So it might not be $6.50 that we're paying. It could
be more than that because you're also lowering the price, the $25 to $20. So I think that those are things
to consider.
But if we're willing to compromise, I think that it's fair for us to see the books and see how that is affecting,
how that is impacting the service. I am definitely for the option of paying $2.50. But if we can see how this
program is being affected, I'm compromising to $4.50, if we get the chance of someone opening the books
to see how does this economically affecting. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Our next speaker, Kristina Ericson.
KRISTINA ERICSON: Hey, everyone. Sorry, I had to walk. Good evening, everyone. My name is Kristina
Ericson. I'm a disability policy advisor and a certified accessibility specialist. I work for the state of Colorado.
I am also your very new chair of RTD's advisory committee for people with disabilities. Sorry that this is the
way that we're meeting.
As a refresher, the ACPD is an advisory group that has been mandated to work with RTD staff and Board
members since 2017. We work to advance RTD's efforts to serve travelers with disabilities, which is a
significant part of our ridership. So today, I'm here to advise you.

Access-on-Demand is a critical program that directly amplifies the independence and quality of life of
Coloradans. Coloradans with disabilities, the people who rely on this program, the people in this room who
you're going to continue hearing from, are currently facing programmatic barriers and cuts in nearly every
aspect of civic and public life. In case you haven't read the news lately, federal programs that keep people
out of institutions are on the chopping block. Food assistance is getting cut. New guidelines are making it
harder to access health care, work, accessible spaces. I see this every day at work. And now we want to
make it harder to travel.
I'm a proud RTD user. I volunteer with this committee. I live in Evergreen. I'm an RTD mountain user. What
are my neighbors going to do? Services are limited. As my friend Chelsea said, I would love some answers.
Earlier this year, a national study ranked Colorado as, once again, the number one state to live in if you are
an American with a disability. Number one. It's for a whole wide variety of reasons. Additional studies show
that the Denver Metro area is one of the most accessible urban regions in the nation. I used to work in the
Disability Rights Office for the City of Denver, and I conclude that.
Accessible transit is a factor in every single one of these studies. We are-- I love bragging about that. I love
bragging about that we're number one. You guys are proposing to roll that back.
As a policy analyst, I'm deeply aware of how difficult decisions like this are and how sometimes difficult
decisions need to be made in order to make ends meet. However, my friends and family are scared. The
people I serve are scared. I'm scared. The people in this room are scared. RTD is proposing yet another
accessibility barrier to public life. That's scary.
As you vote today, I advise you to keep this in mind and vote no in support of the people that I love and
serve. I advise you to vote for the people in this room. Let's keep the bragging rights up. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Kristina. The next speaker is Tim Keenan.
TIM KEENAN: All right. Good evening, everybody. I'm Tim Keenan and I work at Amazon DEN5 warehouse
out in Aurora. And I am able to do this because of Access-on-Demand, because of the $25 subsidy,
because of the zero fare, and because there are no area or hourly restrictions. See, I work at night, or
overnight. It's $2 more per hour if you do that. And I'm kind of a night owl anyway, so why not. And I know
I'm not the only one. I know five other blind people out there at DEN5 who have no idea that this hammer
is coming down the pike.
If you were to enact these arbitrary hourly restrictions, that would force all of us to either pay $150 more a
week to get to or from work, depending on which ride fell outside the hour restrictions, or try to change our
schedules, which isn't easy at Amazon, and take a $2 pay cut and work during the day. I mean, and I know
we're not the only ones who need this at night.
And given the lack of savings of continuing to not restrict the hours, I just, I urge you to keep things the way
they are. And as far as the fare goes, it's just, it boggles my mind that this program, this super successful,
super efficient program is the one on the chopping block for a 40% cut. That's massive. And the rationale
behind it still escapes me.
So I just implore you. I really implore you, don't use a sledgehammer. Use something a lot less destructive.
So say, $2.50 for scenario six. OK, that's $5 per round trip. If you do $6.50, $13 every time I want to go
somewhere and come back, and come back, that is just-- I think I just did, what is it? It would be $390 a

month if I took all 60 trips. And I come close a lot because I work. And I'm bringing in tax revenue, and
Access-on-Demand has made this possible.
Don't take it away. Go easy. I've heard from the Board, oh, we need to do something. We're going to do
something and we'll come back in a year. If you take a sledgehammer to this thing, by the time you come
back a year from now, the damage will be done. So go easy on us, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker is Molly Kirkham.
MOLLY KIRKHAM: OK. Hello, I'm Molly Kirkham. Let's see, a little lower. There. I work for Arc [INAUDIBLE]
as a [? legislative ?] policy advocate. I'm also present Speaking for Ourselves, Colorado and People First,
which are all self-advocacy groups. But aside from that, I'm here to talk as a person, first, as a person with
disability, not for them, but just as my experience.
And I can tell you, Access-a-Ride On the Demand has changed my life. Before it, I was relying on my
parents to get me there, or trains. And as we all know, parents get tired driving people and trains can be
late. And that's not what we want. We want to be in the community. And we want to be part of it. That is
what transportation does.
It's not just about money. It's not just about the need. It's about the impact on the life. And for me, because
of it, I can work. I can go to Chili's, which is a running club. I can come to the Capitol. I can go here and
testify. If I did not have Access-on-Demand, I could not do that. That is what it's about. It's about
independence and freedom. It gives people the freedom to get out, the freedom to be in the community. It's
about dignity.
And I think that's what we forget. When you're making decisions, when you think about money, you forget
who it really affects. It's not just a number, it's a person. That is, I think, why we're here. As you look around,
look how many people came to show up. That is, if you vote yes on the changes, that's who you're going
to have to explain it to, the people in this room.
So what I'm saying is don't think we don't know what you're doing. We come here to show up. That is what
Access-on-Demand does. It gives you the ability. A long time ago, when there wasn't [INAUDIBLE]
translations, we hid. We were pushed away. With Access-on-Demand, it opens that door. That is why you
need it. We don't want to go backwards. If you take away transportations, you're taking away the dignity,
the chance to get out. You're taking away a person's life.
Please don't think that's just a number. Think about the person that you're affecting. If you had it this way,
would you want to go around or would you want to stay home? That's the question. So please know that
we do know it's a hard decision. But I just ask you, look at it as a human being. Look at the person in front
of you. Don't just look at the number. And I urge you to vote no to show that you still support people.
And remember, Colorado was the first person to have accessible transportation. We don't want to lose that.
So let's do the right thing and not back down. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Molly. Our next speaker is Coleman Erickson.
COLEMAN ERICKSON: Thank you very much, Director Bouquet. And I am very honored to be in front of
the Board tonight. I really appreciate the effort that everyone's made to show up and hear the constituents
and their concerns regarding this big issue in front of our hands.

I think that the Access-on-Demand service is incredibly useful, but it is incredibly flawed. And I understand
why we need to reform it. Generally, I stand with our ADAPT and CDC members who see the flaws in this
new proposal for fare changes and broad changes to the system as a whole. I think that the right step
forward is going to be looking at the whole paratransit system and how we can adapt it to work for the
community in a way that it hasn't been yet.
This has been a magic bullet that has, in a lot of ways, solved a lot of problems, but as we can see now,
has created even more for you, the Board. The decisions in front of you tonight are not easy ones, but I
know I would not be voting for this. And thank goodness I'm not up there voting.
This is something I don't have a lot of personal experience with. I am not disabled. I do not use paratransit,
and I don't have anyone in my immediately in my immediate family that does. My grandmother has on
occasion used such services, but not through RTD, and I can't speak to that on a personal level. But it does
personally affect me to watch everyone who shows up to your meetings speak on this matter in such a
personal way, and I can't provide that experience myself.
But I want to stand in solidarity with their movement and the great things Colorado and RTD has done to
support our disabled communities and provide quality paratransit. And I look forward to in the future, once
we're past this vote, working on quality, better paratransit that can not only meet the needs of our community
better than it is now, but exceed the expectations of the Board and operations at RTD.
So I yield the rest of my time. Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Coleman. Our next speaker is Lynn Eberhart.
LYNN EBERHART: Good evening. Again, it's Lynn Eberhart. I am new to Colorado. I've only been here
about a month and a half, attending the Colorado Center for the Blind. In this time, this month alone, my
bus has been late at least five times. I go to dialysis three days a week, and my bus has been late, nonexistent, five times this month alone. Even the dispatcher has suggested for me to log in to get the Accesson-Demand because the Access-a-Ride has a problem. There's over 200 drivers and they still can't facilitate
all the people who need to use the service to get to the places they need to be.
Hearing about the Access-on-Demand, I really think that it should be kept, if you don't do, keep it at free,
the $2.50, or even the $4.50, since that is the price it costs to ride the regular Access-a-Ride. I know
everybody has been saying the same thing. We almost sound like a broken record, but I hope that you take
that into consideration about the passion that all of us feel about this huge increase.
Jumping it up to $6.50 is more than just a regular bus ride. And that's not fair to anybody, especially with
the service being there to help assist us and where we need to go, where we need to be. So I hope that
you just take everybody's pleas and requests into consideration before you take this vote. And please vote
no, that you will not increase the price to $6.50.
Thank you so much for your time and your attention. Have a great evening.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Lynn. Our next speaker is Derek Selbo.
DEREK SELBO: Sorry, sorry. Good evening, everybody, and thank you to the Board for listening to us. I
am totally blind, as you can probably tell.

Liberty and justice for all. I heard that earlier, as we all did. There is no justice to any of the disabled people,
not only in this room, but the many thousands that were not able to get here tonight. When actions like what
are being considered are taken, there's no justice.
Let's talk about liberty. I have the liberty, due to Access-on-Demand, getting to my appointments, getting to
the Colorado Center for the Blind, where I'm training. I have the liberty of being able to go food shopping at
2:00 in the morning. I have the liberty, et cetera, et cetera.
There is no liberty and justice for anybody in this room when the decisions that are being considered are
being-- or if they were put into place. We're being discriminated against as a population. Oh, poor people,
feel sorry for them. Yeah, but you know what? What the heck? No, it's not what the heck.
Let me explain one thing to each of you Board members. And I don't mean this in a bad way. Do you know
how many people have gone to bed perfectly healthy and woken up blind? Do you know how many people
had a stroke and went blind? Do you know how many people had a retinal detachment and went blind?
And these were healthy people, leading normal lives just like you're leading. And they woke up blind. Do
you think it would not happen to you?
Additionally, put your shoe on the other foot. If it did happen to you, how would you be thinking right now?
Please ask yourself that question before making any rash decisions.
I hope that the Board members are not being swayed by other Board members. Because recently, you did
something that everybody felt very happy about. A couple of months ago, you made a decision. And all of
a sudden, after the committee meeting, everything changed.
So where is your thinking? Why are you swaying back and forth? This is not right. Not only is it not right,
but we are not going to let up on the pressure. If you think what you've seen so far is pressure, hah, it's only
just starting. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Derek. Our next speaker is Leah Jaron Or Leah. No, you're good.
LEAH JARON: Hello, RTD Board of Directors. My name is Leah Jaron. I'm a resident of RTD District N.
And I'm fortunate enough to serve as the Chair of the RTD Board of Directors of Atlantis Community, Inc.,
which is, if you aren't aware, the Center for Independent Living that serves the Greater Denver area. Of our
seven counties that we serve, RTD serves five of them.
The other people here tonight speaking out against the Access-on-Demand changes have covered the
severe, life altering impact of these changes on the disabled community. I have to at least acknowledge
that we are not exaggerating when we're saying that disabled lives will be lost with these changes. People
won't be able to perform their daily tasks and their basic activities.
But I wanted to switch gears and focus on something else. For my day job, I'm a quality engineer. It's my
job to look at the details. So I spent some of my limited free time just casually reading the commission peer
review report from the transit subject matter experts. I thought it was a good report. And if you haven't read
it, I think it would be worth the time to read it.
I just wanted to point out that the RTD paratransit proposal that's up for vote tonight does not follow the
recommendations from this report. The report outlines seven initiatives, and of the seven, this proposal only
addresses two items. So I'll quickly go through those seven initiatives.

So number one is define paratransit's mission internally and externally. And this is mentioned throughout
the report. And I'll come back to it a little later. Number two, restructure the AOD premium service for longterm stability. So here's one of two areas that the proposal addresses. Number three, establish clear
boundaries that uphold RTD's paratransit mission. So that's the second area that is covered.
Number four is an important one to me, as a quality engineer in a regulated industry, it says, reduce
compliance exposures. So you might want to read into that a little bit later. But the last three I won't talk too
much about, because I'm running out of time.
So from my closer reading, though, I really wanted to point out two things. The biggest recommendation
from the subject matter experts was to define a vision and strategy for paratransit, gather data from current
use, and engage key internal and external stakeholders in developing and communicating any program
modifications. Basically, holistically reviewing the paratransit programs to ensure they complement each
other. The time has not been spent to do this.
Number two is the examples that were provided in the report were still careful to include an offsetting benefit
to customers, basically a compromise. From reading the past Board meetings, I can see that this proposal
has gone through several iterations, and I'm appreciative of the listening that has already occurred, but it's
still not enough for our community.
So today, I urge you to vote no on the Access-on-Demand changes. Listen to the commission report and
take the time to do this correctly. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker is Kaylie Medina.
KAYLIE MEDINA: My name is Kaylie Medina. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak in front of
the elected Board of Directors.
I urge you today to vote no on the proposed changes, especially on the basis of an unfair increase in base
fare, and urge you to consider your obligation to the community and voter accountability.
Personally, I live in the District of Director Nicholson, and in November of 2024, before the ballot deadline,
he was canvassing personally and I had the opportunity to speak with him about my fears with changes to
Access-on-Demand. Almost one year later, I still fear changes to a program that has been absolutely life
changing. An increase to $6.50 would make the program completely unusable to so many people within a
vulnerable community.
For people that are blind and visually impaired and other disabilities, the program has become something
that HAS been an essential service. And even an increase of $4.50 per trip would be an unmanageable
base fare, considering Access-on-Demand is a tipped service. There's an expectation of tipping. $4.50 can
easily become $7.00 or more.
I urge you to vote no on the proposed changes until there is a viable alternative for paratransit within Denver,
and consider that each one of the Directors has people in your community just like me, who depend on this
service. Thank you so much for your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Kaylie. Our next speaker is Brian Grewe.
BRIAN GREWE: Awesome. Hi, everyone. I'm Dr. Brian Grewe. I'm the Executive Director of Atlantis
Community. I've spoken to you all before.

Real quick, just to get this out of the way, I'm saying the same thing that everybody else is saying. We want
you to do a comprehensive impact study before making any decisions to changes to fares, coverage,
subsidies and all those good things. But I want to talk some real numbers with you all so that you can
understand the scope of the decisions you're making tonight.
So when we talk about the financial impact that a raise is going to be, 25.6% of our population lives under
poverty. It's actually higher in Denver than other cities, and it's at 26.4% here. The next 40% of our
community lives above poverty but we still make less than our able-bodied counterparts. How much less?
30%.
When we're talking what this impact will be, it's not just the one fare we're talking about here. As others
have pointed out tonight, all of the barriers that we run into for being disabled are expensive. I became
disabled 23 years ago. When I was in my rehab, I was told that my life was going to cost $1.3 million more
before the age of 43. That's how old I turn this year. Why? What is it going to cost more? Well, because
being disabled costs more.
And so we have this compounding barrier that keeps increasing. Because it's not just transportation, it's
our increases in health care, the cost of food, the cost of housing. When I moved to Denver in 2008, the
average apartment was $1,000. Can you imagine getting an apartment today for $1,000? It'd be awesome,
right? Life is expensive. It's more expensive for us.
We're asking you to take the time, figure out the impact on our community. Listen to Jamie over here and
do the operational analysis to show that we can figure out the logistics too. And then let's come back to the
table and talk about this.
If you went to the store tomorrow and you bought a staple for your family-- in my family, it's milk. We're a
weird family. My older children still drink milk but we buy it. When the pandemic hit, I was buying six gallons
of milk a week because they were going through a gallon a day. I have four kids, by the way. Two sets of
twins, just a fun piece of information.
But if I went to the store and all of a sudden milk went from $2.39 for a half gallon to $3.99, $5.99, I'm going
to pay attention. What happened when eggs went up in price this year? Didn't we all go, whoa. And for the
first time probably ever in most of our lives, we thought to ourselves, do we want to buy it?
These increase in costs are causing us to say, what is worth doing here? We heard about the gentleman
who's going to pay more now to work night shifts because there's a $2 differential. In your mind, you might
be thinking, it's not that much, but it is. This has real world impacts. And we're not saying to you, don't
charge us. What we're saying to you is do the research, then make the decisions.
But have us at the table more accurately, not just disabled folks. Have the people who use this service sit
at the table with you, because they're the ones going to tell you what they need. They're going to tell you
how it impacts them. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker is Bryanna Stubbert.
BRYANNA STUBBERT: Hi. My name is Bryanna and I assume that everyone is in front of me, but I don't
really know. I too am from Atlantis community. There have been a couple of us here today, so you can
definitely tell that this is very important to our organization as a whole.

The thing that I wanted to touch on, now that everyone has gone, and I'll say the same thing that Brian did,
I'm echoing the same thing that everyone before me has said to you. The thing that I think that I want to
say now is to put it in maybe a perspective that you live. So imagine when you wake up in the morning and
you're running late, your coffee may be spilled on your shirt, and you had said, dang, I need to change my
shirt. You run back inside and then you get into your car and you go to work. No real change in your day.
For a person with a disability, if you have already made your paratransit ride, you best better be outside.
They ain't waiting for you. No, ma'am. And you better be outside at least 15 minutes in advance because
they are not waiting. So you're going to go to work with the coffee stain on your shirt and no coffee because
you spilled it.
And the second thing is that I'll put it into perspective for you, imagine you couldn't just get in your car to go
somewhere. Oh, I need something from the store. Let me just get into my car and go. That is a privilege
that you hold. And honestly, Coloradans, you do not hold it dearly enough. There are too many car accidents
on the freeway, OK. But it is a privilege that you hold. And I will say that it is a privilege that we are very
aware that we do not have.
So please be considerate when you are taking into consideration the dignity of what transportation and
having that on-demand access actually means to people, and what it actually means to your quality of life.
Your ability to do what you want as you want is a privilege. We are asking for the same thing.
Just like everyone else has said, we're not asking for this service to be free, but we're saying that a $650
increase, or 650% increase will make us not use it, period. And I'm pretty sure that is not the goal of this
Board or of this organization as a whole.
So please, take into consideration the privileges that you do have. Please acknowledge that it is a privilege,
and we are just looking to be treated with respect and dignity for wanting to live full, quality lives, and that
includes work and community engagement. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker is Michelle Dumais.
MICHELLE DUMAIS: Hello?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Hello.
MICHELLE DUMAIS: OK. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Michelle Dumais. I'm not here today as
a commissioner from the Denver Commission for Persons with Disabilities. I'm not here today as the cochair of the Ideas Committee. I'm here tonight as a mother of a child, an adult, who uses the Access-onDemand.
When you think about what is before you as a Board, as so many people have said already, it's really about
dignity and it's really about having an inclusive Denver. So your no vote means yes for a life well lived in an
inclusive Denver. And that's really what your mission is about today.
So I implore you, as everyone else has, to seriously consider what is before you. I know that you don't take
it lightly. I also know that your yes vote will be an altering decision for the lives of thousands of Denverites
and thousands who are in the Denver Metro area. As so many speakers have said before, this increase will
make the system inaccessible to most persons. And if you lose the ridership due to an increase, aren't you
actually making a self-fulfilling prophecy?

When you think about the cuts that you're making to the service areas in an effort to, I don't know, save
money or whatever it is that you're saying about why you're making a service cut to the areas, you will make
it inaccessible for people. And that really is not your mission. Really, your mission is how to keep an
inclusive Denver and how to make the services, how to make Denver accessible to everyone. That's what
paratransit is for.
So your yes vote says that you've forgotten what your mission is. Your yes vote actually says you don't
know what your job is. So I implore you, I implore you, I'm asking you, as so many people here have done
tonight, please think about the decisions and take the data and let the data drive you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker is Joy [? Yanti. ?]
[? JOY
YANTI: ?] Hi. Thank you for allowing us to speak. I also am legally blind, and I come from a family with
disabled grandparents and other family members. I also am asking that you guys vote no on this. I don't
feel like you guys have listened to us. I don't feel like you guys have asked us questions when you have
sent out the questionnaires. It's just here, would you do this or this? And it's like, well, I wouldn't do any of
those. You're not getting our responses in true response.
I also am going to ask that you keep it at 60 rides. Many of us use almost 60 rides because we work. We
also need to go to our appointments. How many of us have been late to appointments for our doctors
because, well, Access-a-Ride was late or it couldn't find its way to CU Health. Go figure. So those are some
of the things.
We also would assess it using multi trips, I think would save. I've said this before, I think it should be added.
If you want to add $2.50, you do. Keep it at 0. But I think that there are ways that you guys can save. What
about the fees that Uber and Lyft are adding on? Do they really need to be adding those on? Do you know
what those are? Are they charging you guys sales tax because you guys can be exempt from the state
side? Have you guys looked into that?
Have you looked into the CDLE side of where they're doing these employee operation services fees for
$0.07? Why aren't the drivers paying that? Why are you or why are we paying that? What about the $0.34
that DOR, Department of Revenue, is charging for the different vehicles? Is that something you can be
exempt from? If you can be exempt from sales tax, why can't DOR maybe even exempt RTD from that type
of service?
If you take, just say, the 15 million, Just from one of the numbers I saw, and you divide that by the 25 that
you're doing right now, that's 600,000 rides. Divide that by the 7 to, we'll just say $0.41, if you were to take
off both the $0.07 and the $0.31, $0.34, you can bring that-- that's like $246,000 right there a year. And if
you divide that by-- Sorry, I'm doing all this by memory. But that just brings it down to a whole bunch, almost
like 10,000 rides in addition.
And not everybody's going to use the whole 60 rides. But many of us do, because some of us live just on
the outsides of fixed routes. We have to spend $15 already. What about those of us who do work at night?
I could have a freezer go down. I'm going to have to pay a whole bunch of more extra to go back to work
again, and then lose all that product.
The other things are is that now, I lived on that, I also have lived in where we needed Access-on-Demand,
or it was cabs back in the day I was taking it, because we were just outside of the boundaries. Now--

JULIEN BOUQUET: Joy, if you could wrap up your comments.
[? JOY
YANTI: ?] Yeah. I live 1.2 miles one way, 0.8 miles, or 0.5, and I can't get to the 0.5 because there is no
lights or anything to safely cross.
So I do have to use Access-on-Demand because Access-a-Ride is not reliable. So Access-on-Demand is
a must.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Those were our speakers in person. I will now transition to public comment
online. Mr. Kroll, our first speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. First we have Melissa Fishburn. Melissa. Melissa, you'll need to unmute and then state
your name. Perhaps we can come back to Melissa. Those online might have simply raised their hand and
stepped away for a moment. If that's OK, Chair Bouquet, I can go to our next.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, we'll come back to Melissa.
JACK KROLL: The next individual on the list is Jolee Harston. Jolie.
JOLEE HARSTON: Yes. Hello. Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
JOLEE HARSTON: Hi. Good evening, Directors. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Jolee
Harston and I am a Denver, a newly Denver resident and an Access-on-Demand user. I am a wheelchair
user. Before moving to Denver about four months ago, I lived in the Lone Tree area with my parents for
many years. Access-a-Ride didn't service my home address because I live too far away from a bus stop,
and so I relied on rides from my parents and grandparents, who both worked, and my grandparents often
couldn't assist me, meaning I often missed appointments and had little independence and ability to be a
part of my community.
When I found out about Access-on-Demand about a year ago, my whole life changed for the better.
Because of Access-on-Demand, I have been able to be much more independent and integrated into my
community. In fact, it has helped me be able to move down to Denver, because I was able to make new
friends and learn about new things. These proposed increased costs and reduced services would eliminate
my own ability, as someone on Social Security, and countless other disabled, elderly, and needy
Coloradans to utilize this life changing service. It will eliminate many individuals' integration in their
surrounding community and relegate them to their home, missing important appointments and affecting
their physical health and mental health.
I find it especially ironic that these proposed changes come at the 35th anniversary of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, where the mini RTD buses have ADA illustrations currently advertised on them. I am
disappointed in the lack of transparency and information available to the disabled public. I barely knew that
this was going to be happening. I only ran across it on social media and I'm so grateful I did.
I do not pretend to that money grows on trees or there is a simple answer to all of this. However, punishing
the city and state's largest minority population, people with disabilities, is not the answer. Even if I could

afford regular rideshare services, which I cannot, I would be stuck because outside of AOD, there are no
WAV Uber Lyft vehicles available.
Please do not send us backwards. Access-on-Demand as it currently is has brought so much freedom to
me and my community. Everyone in this room will become disabled in their lifetime. Please fight for us, for
your future selves, for your future family, for our civil rights, and for programs like these by voting no tonight
on this. Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Jolee. Our next speaker, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we'll try again with Melissa Fishburn.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Melissa. We'll come back to Melissa.
MELISSA FISHBURN: Can you hear me now?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, yes we can.
MELISSA FISHBURN: Hello?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Melissa. We can hear you now.
MELISSA FISHBURN: Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
MELISSA FISHBURN: Yes, I'm sorry. I am Melissa Fishburn. I reside in District D. And my term, my threeyear term, just ended. I was a member on the APAC.
I am very honored to have the opportunity to speak with you all tonight. I thank you for all taking the time to
serve the community, and in that, I must urge you to uphold that key point of wanting to serve the
community. Please do not change Access-on-Demand, as there is not enough factual information, clear
and concise factual information, provided by the organization to make an educated vote tonight.
I urge a no vote, because they have had over a year at RTD to make an organized presentation, and these
materials just are not coming to fruition. Hence, the reason why the Board asked for more information in
July. It's still not coming together. There's not a fair comparative analysis across the board for all RTD
services and what cuts can be done in either in-house or external savings. It's all coming down to the
disability community, the people that are the most unemployed, the most underserved, and the vast
population of people needing transit and paratransit.
Cuts to any part of Access-on-Demand right now would be severely negligent to vote anything on tonight
by the Board. I implore you to do what is right by the community, not only by the facts you have, not only
just by personal caring about your community but by protecting the agency as well to its commitment to
uphold equity that everybody is so founded on these days, equity and inclusion. RTD would very much
adhere to the rest of society who wants to cut services to people with disabilities. As far as the advocating
for health care, if we get our rights cut to health care, then they would just justify that even more to cut
services that are very important to people with disabilities.

Again, I just can't urge you to vote enough no, no across the board. And please, if the RTD staff has not
done in over a year, given you an educated picture of what this looks like, why they are so bent on making
Access-on-Demand changes, then they won't do it in another year. So please, do not allow any changes to
a great program that was put in place at only $2 to begin with. Don't let it go up to $6.50 when times are
even rougher than they were back then.
I'm not saying don't charge us at all. We're not asking for a handout. We're asking for a hand up in the
community, and we just can't do it at a $6.50 fare increase. That's not even something that is given to
people without disabilities. There's never-JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Melissa.
MELISSA FISHBURN: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have Ty Smith.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ty, you're recognized.
TY SMITH: Can you hear me? This is Ty.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, we can hear you, Ty.
TY SMITH: Hello, everyone. My name is Ty Smith. I am a person with disabilities. I grew up in extreme
poverty, and I've used RTD for decades to help me get to where I am now. I am a proud full-time employee
at Atlantis as a benefits planner. I am a commissioner and sit on many councils in the past that were
governor and mayor appointed, and I do a lot of work in my community. It is important to me to be able to
provide community engagement and participate in my community as an equal.
You've heard a lot today about how the changes that you're considering will impact people's vocation, which
will then impact my vocation because I want to help people find their path of their life journey. And there
are so many additional challenges to try and work when you have a disability, a lot of things that almost
feel like a full-time job in reporting and managing your benefits and meeting with doctors, and it can be very
over stressful and overwhelming, and any one little thing can make a house of cards fall.
But all the work that I've done to get to where I am, I'm a proud homeowner. I want to help other people
achieve the same thing. You've heard about the value of people working and being taxpayers and being
able to contribute, and I just want to echo everything that they said. They're much more powerful stories
than me.
But there's also a cost when it comes to not allowing people to participate in their community as equals,
that they tend to use more intensive services, hospital trips, ERs. For me, I was prophesied that I would
spend the rest of my life behind bars. But here I am, a good, hard working member of my community that
contributes in every way that I can, and, my coworkers will know, probably too much.
But I just want to say that it's not only the cost in taxpayers. It's not only the cost in society, but it's a lower
quality of life, which will then cost the taxpayers more. Please allow people to contribute in a meaningful
way to the community. Please honor our founder, Wade Blank, and the Gang of 19 who fought so very hard

to get these services in the first place, that you just created a fabulous tribute to not more than four months
ago. Thank you so much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ty. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Next is Lilli Mann.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Lilli, you're recognized.
JACK KROLL: Lilli, you'll need to unmute. Perhaps we can move to the next one and come back to Lilli.
OK, so next we have Samantha Barrasso.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Samantha, you're recognized.
SAMANTHA BARRASSO: Hello. Thank you so much. My name is Samantha Barrasso, and I am an actor
with Phamaly Theater Company, the world's oldest disability affirmative theater company in the United
States, along with many other theaters in the Denver Metro area. I also happen to be blind and an Accesson-Demand user.
And now I want everyone on the Board, everyone without a disability, close your eyes while I'm talking to
you. Close your eyes for a minute. Get yourself out of your place of privilege. And I want you to imagine the
scenario I'm about to explain. What would it be like if you couldn't drive, if you had to rely on systems and
people to get to where you need to go to, could not get there in a timely fashion, and had to plan your literal
entire life out a day in advance?
That's what the reality was like for me and so many other people with disabilities like me before Access-onDemand. I have been a paratransit user with RTD since 2009, at the age of 18. And while using Access-aRide, I was often mistreated by drivers and dispatch people alike. My time was not considered. And if it
weren't for the help of Uber and Lyft in their infancy and helpful parents, I would have missed several
classes and a very important college midterm exam because of Access-a-Ride's negligence. I had to stop
using it because the trust wasn't there anymore.
Access-on-Demand has literally changed my life. I can now go to auditions around the city, even in other
cities like Northglenn. I can go to rehearsals that get out at 10:00 PM, sometimes 11:00 or midnight, and I
can hang out with my myriad of friends that I have in the community. I am a starving artist living on disability
income as well. The only place of employment I've managed to get in the last few years is in the theater.
And with this fare increase and our decrease, that would go away.
RTD has long been suffering under the delusion that people with disabilities do not have lives. I'm here to
tell you right now that we do. We're professionals, students, parents, actors, employed and unemployed,
and we want to live the best life and achieve our dreams, just like you do.
Please, I urge you to vote no on these proposed changes, and I urge a third-party study with people from
the community, people with disabilities. As Melissa said, we're not asking for a handout. We're asking for a
hand up.
So please, I urge you to do the right thing. And if there is a yes vote, we will be out in full force protesting.
Disabled people are here, disabled people exist, and we will not be silenced or going away. Thank you so
much for your time.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Samantha. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Lilli Mann. Lilli.
LILLI MANN: Hi. Sorry. I had accidentally rotated my screen so I couldn't unmute. Oh, my god, voiceover,
stop. OK.
My name-- well, I put Lilli Mann on there because that's my name on the RTD thing, but my preferred name
is Jasmine. I'm a 24-year-old blind woman living in the Denver Metro area of Colorado. Because I struggle
with the bus system and the light rail system and have major trauma around crossing streets, I rely on
Access-on-Demand fully for my transportation. A $6.50 increase would literally cause me and many others
to become isolated.
Even a $4.50-- honestly, even a $2.50 increase could potentially harm some. And I think if it has to go that
route, those of us-- like, OK, I'm paid $870 a month by Social Security. Finding low income housing is
impossible. I have to pay $700 in rent plus other bills. I'm left with nothing at the beginning of the month.
So even a $2.50 cent increase could hurt me. So there needs to be a form or some sort, if the price
increases, for people like me to be able to give proof of our expenses for us to have our fares knocked
down to nothing until it exceeds an amount.
There's also a mental health card to this. Nobody's talking about the mental health aspect, so I'm going to
go into that. Disabled people are some of the loneliest people in this country. If you vote yes on this, you're
voting for a greater loneliness epidemic. And that can cause depression, anxiety, stomach issues, and even
so much as suicidal thoughts. This decision could literally kill somebody.
Imagine, you hear somebody in your community after this decision is made who has either committed
suicide or ended up in a crisis center, whether that's in Littleton or Boulder. Imagine hearing that they got
put in there or are now no longer with us because they were got too isolated. If you vote yes, you're voting
for the loneliness epidemic to continue. You're voting for potentially the Littleton and Boulder crisis centers
to even get more patients.
This is so much more than just transportation. This is mental health. This is dignity. And like other people
have said, disabled people are people. We are not second class citizens. We have lives. We have friends.
We have family. We have people that we want to go see. We're not all older. I'm in my mid 20s. I want to
live like a mid 20s person should. And I can't even find a job like most people my age, because people
discriminate against me.
And those of you who are saying the $2.50 even isn't a big deal, you guys probably either have jobs or you
have low income housing, which is also really impossible to get. I feel like I'd sound super entitled to ask
for free, but I don't think I would be. At the very least, just if it has to increase, I want people like myself to
at least be able to opt, and being able to share expenses with you and possibly get considered to-- So
please, please, please vote no. Please don't let a lot of us be isolated. Please don't cause, you know,
people's mental health to spiral.
Please. This literally is, people's lives are in your hands tonight. People's lives are literally in your hands.
Thank you so much for letting me speak.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Next is Jordan Sibayan.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Jordan.
JORDAN SIBAYAN: Hello. Can you all hear?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can, Jordan.
JORDAN SIBAYAN: I don't know where my camera is, so I'm just going to go with it. [INAUDIBLE] and we
have both been [AUDIO OUT] and users and have advocated for accessible on demand transportation for
at least the past 10 years, along with ADAPT and Atlantis Community.
Echoing what everybody else has already said, increasing the fare to $6.50 while reducing services is just
inexcusable. That's not saying that we wouldn't be willing to pay some sort of base [AUDIO OUT] increasing
the price [AUDIO OUT] decreasing the service area and the service times. When you've [INAUDIBLE]
testimony after testimony of individuals who use this to get to work, to do what they need to do for their
doctor's appointments, and they've become reliant on it, and we use it as an alternative to the Access-aRide proper, I'll call it, because it's more reliable. And sometimes things that you need to do, you can't
schedule a day in advance before 5:00 PM.
So that's I'm going to turn it over to Jacqueline. Do you want to add anything to that?
JACQUELINE: So going off of what Jordan said, if you have pets, vet visits, if they need [INAUDIBLE], if
it's like, oh, you have to bring them in. It's an in-office, or a drop-off. You don't know what time you're picking
them up. So On Demand, or a couple of years ago, I had to recertify for Access-a-Ride. My driver came
and left to pick me up before my window had even opened. I was on hold. And they're like, yeah, they're
downstairs. They were gone. I could not do my appointment that day because of Access-a-Ride's
restrictions on time. And I would have been there forever, because of will call.
Wade Blank did not get people out of nursing homes just for them to be stuck in their own homes. It's like
going from one stuck situation to another. Do not vote yes on this. You will destroy more lives than I think
you realize.
JORDAN SIBAYAN: Thank you, Jacqueline. And in closing, one of the [AUDIO OUT] to the effect of
accessible by choice not by chance. Well, here's another good way to make that choice, to keep things
accessible. Thank you for letting us speak. Thank you, Board of Directors and everybody in attendance.
And [AUDIO OUT].
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you both for your comments. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have Madeleine Walsh.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Madeleine, you're recognized.
MADELEINE WALSH: Hi, everybody. Thank you for this opportunity to speak today. I really appreciate this
meeting and the ability to participate. I want to acknowledge first the work that it takes to collaborate with
so many individuals who all have different needs and say that your work is deeply valued and received with
nothing but gratitude.
I understand that this service costs money, but I hope we also recognize the economic value this service
creates. When Access-on-Demand allows people with disabilities to get to work, school, medical care, or
grocery shopping, we are able to contribute more fully to our communities. The money we save on

transportation goes back into the economy, and that can be through groceries, clothing, and even tips for
our drivers. And this is why the proposed fare increase is so concerning. Raising the price doesn't just take
the money from riders, it also takes money out of the local economy that we would otherwise spend in our
communities. For many of us, that increase simply is not sustainable.
For me personally, Access-on-Demand has been essential. Bus routes and schedules often do not provide
adequate access to get to and from places in a timely manner, and at night, often not at all. Access-onDemand helps me get to college classes, job interviews, doctor's appointments, and other daily living
activities or needs. It also provides independence and reduces strain on caregivers, which is invaluable and
adds even more economic value.
I would also ask the Board to consider alternative ways to save money without raising fares. Each month,
I receive a voucher for new rides, but after a recent surgery I was not able to use mine for the past two
months. However, once the month ends, those unused rides simply expire. Is it possible for us to consider
a rollover system so rides don't go to waste? Or, if rollover isn't possible, perhaps a system where riders
can request additional rides when they are running low instead of automatic reissuance every month.
Perhaps these changes could reduce waste, save money, and give riders a bit more flexibility.
Please think not only of this as a disability issue, but also of the much larger ripple effects this decision will
have on the whole Denver community. Pushing through this vote is not only unsustainable for more than
just us, without adequate feedback at risk leading to decisions that don't reflect the full picture.
Again, thank you so much for your time and for considering these perspectives. It's very much appreciated.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes. The next speaker is Ethan Elshyeb.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ethan.
ETHAN ELSHYEB: Hello. Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
ETHAN ELSHYEB: OK. Thank you so much for having me. My name is Ethan. I'm a Boulder resident and
a frequent user of the Skip FF1 and E lines. And I wanted to try to bring another perspective to this meeting.
I believe the Access-on-Demand service is critically important, but I also think we must recognize the need
for RTD to provide the best service to everyone and every community. When you look at a service like the
Skip that I, and others, I know rely on multiple days per week, in 2024, that cost RTD about $5.2 million to
service over a million trips per year. Now, a previous speaker stated that AOD is the cheapest service RTD
provides, But in fact, it costs RTD over $16 million a year to service just 700,000 trips.
What that means is that for every AOD ride, you're effectively sacrificing four rides on a traditional bus route.
Now, I know how important these rides are to our disability community, and I believe that specifically users
on a lower income do deserve better, and it seems like some people here are unaware of the LiVE program
that cuts fares in half. I would support further reducing the LiVE fare to the same $2.25 as the Access-aRide program, or even lower, which would apply to everyone making under 250% of the poverty line.

And I also support expanding AOD to the entire RTD service area. But at the same time, an unsustainable
program, frankly, benefits no one in the long run, and charging a sustainable fare for the service is a far
better alternative to needing to cancel it outright or reduce bus service if it keeps growing and growing.
And finally, on a different topic, I also want to recognize the comments around the proposed changes to 8th
Avenue brought up by a previous speaker, and agree that converting that to a grade crossing would be an
unacceptable and unsafe change.
Thank you very much for your hard work and your time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ethan. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have Chandler Sanchez.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Chandler, you're recognized.
CHANDLER SANCHEZ: Hi there. Can you hear me all right?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
CHANDLER SANCHEZ: All right. Thank you. Yeah. I want to thank you all for having the opportunity to
give public comment. My name is Chandler Sanchez. I'm a Denver resident, and I work for the Southwest
Energy Efficiency Project. We are partnering with the Denver Streets Partnership to put on some transit
town halls across the RTD region, and we just wanted to join today to thank the Board members who are
partnering with us for these town halls. We're looking forward to supporting conversations in your
communities.
Clearly, like today's Board meeting shows, community conversations really are the foundation to ensuring
that transit actually does work for everyone. And we would love to continue the conversation about how
transit service can be improved. Our first meeting is going to be next Wednesday in Parker for District G.
And we also want to acknowledge that RTD is facing some very real financial challenges, some of which,
again, are being presented tonight. And we think it's really important, and I can't underscore it enough, that
it is really necessary to be forward thinking about how the region can come together to make Denver's
largest transit service provider work better for all of the people in our community.
So again, thank you for the time and I hope to see you, as well as many folks here, at our RTD town, or our
transit town halls. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Chandler. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have James Triplette.
JULIEN BOUQUET: James. James, you're recognized to speak.
JACK KROLL: James, you'll need to unmute. Perhaps we can come back to James.
Next, we have Joshua Hursa.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Joshua, you recognized.

JOSHUA HURSA: Hello. Can everybody hear me?
JACK KROLL: Joshua, it indicates that you are speaking, but we're not able to hear you.
JOSHUA HURSA: Is this better? Hello.
JACK KROLL: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We hear you now.
JOSHUA HURSA: OK, good. I was wondering what was going on with my phone.
My name is Joshua Hursa. I am a medicated schizophrenic who lives in Capitol Hill in Denver, and I was
on the Access-a-Ride committee for three years. And I want to just testify about how valuable the
connections are for people that don't live on fixed transit lines.
I used to live out near Buckley Air Force Base, and I would walk for almost two miles to my fixed route,
which was the 133. And I've had multiple times where that bus would pass me right by instead of stopping
and would have to walk two miles back home. And this was back in the winter months.
So it's really important to have this service available where we can call Uber or Lyft or cabs, because
Medicaid cabs are going away. That system gets people to doctor's appointments and stuff too. So it's
really important to have this system and to fund it. And I understand that $0 is probably not going to continue
much longer, but I would rather have the increase be $2 or $4 instead of $6.
So just consider all of those factors while you guys are making your decision. And I appreciate you,
Directors, for listening to all of our public comment. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Joshua. Our next speaker, Jack.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have Gabe Meade.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Gabe, you're recognized.
GABLE MEADE: Hi. Can you hear me? Hello.
JACK KROLL: Gabe, the same issue here. It seems like you're trying to speak, but we aren't able to hear
you.
GABLE MEADE: Hello. Hello. Hello, hello, hello.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We hear you now, Gabe. Thank you.
GABLE MEADE: Sorry. Sorry, can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
GABLE MEADE: OK. Sorry. Hi. My name is Gable Meade and I am educational Braillist for Denver Public
Schools. And what that means is that I, for my job, work with blind students in the Denver area. And I

understand that the Board is in, as someone said earlier, an unenviable position right now, having to do
this vote.
And you've heard from a lot of people who are going to be much more well spoken than I am. But you have
heard a lot of testimonies that are born out of passion and fear and, in some cases, rage. And I know that
this vote wouldn't be on the table if there wasn't a reason behind it. Because I understand that the Board
and the people who are making these decisions are not monsters.
That being said, I can also make the assumption that the Board and the people who make these decisions
are not paratransit users. Because if you were, I don't think this would be up to a vote. I think you would
understand how important, one, Access-on-Demand is, and how unreliable Access-a-Ride is, and has been
for so many people. I think anyone who uses the service has at least one horror story of anything from
missing the ride or having trouble with drivers. And I think Access-on-Demand has been an incredible other
alternative for many disabled people.
I am fully blind myself. And I think the raise to a $6.50 fare is highly unsustainable for me, and I work full
time, 40 hours a week. But that being said, I'm not in public education for the money. And $6.50, 60 rides
a month, $390. I'm already spending at least $2.50 on my rides as is, with the 0 fare. And because I take
more than just two rides home and to work each day, I have other students between schools that I need to
go visit, and so my rides are rarely free in general, and adding a $6.50 fare on top of that, it could be
severely damaging. Even a $4.50 But I understand if that's the compromise that needs to be made, it is.
And that's not just me. I have a colleague, Anahit LaBarre, who is, I believe, is present with you guys, who's
a teacher of the visually impaired for Denver Public Schools. And she takes more rides than I do, and she
spends more money than I do a month. And us spending $500 to $800 a month on rides just so we can
teach our students, our blind students, is very difficult to articulate how challenging that is for us to reckon
with.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Wrap up your comments.
GABLE MEADE: Yeah. As I say, I understand that this is a very tough decision. And as I said earlier, I know
you guys are not monsters, because monsters do not have hearts and I know that you guys do. So I would
appreciate if you guys could listen to yours and understand that the right decision is to vote no. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Next, we're going to try James Triplette again. James.
JULIEN BOUQUET: James.
JACK KROLL: James, you'll need to unmute.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Joe. Joe. Joe.
JACK KROLL: All right. I think we'll move on and we'll come back again, James. Anahit LaBarre is the next
one.
ANAHIT LABARRE: Hello. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. My name is Anahit LaBarre.
Can you guys hear me? Can you hear me?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, we're getting some indication from our staff that the audio is just not coming through
here.
ANAHIT LABARRE: Well, can you hear me? I'm speaking now. OK. Got it.
JACK KROLL: Ms. LaBarre, we're having some technical difficulties.
ANAHIT LABARRE: Gotcha. OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Want to take five?
JACK KROLL: Should we take-- so, do we need to restart? OK. We should probably take a full break now
and then-JULIEN BOUQUET: OK.
JACK KROLL: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. We will be taking a 10-minute break. We'll be back at 7:51.
ANAHIT LABARRE: OK. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Welcome back, everyone. We are still in public participation. Thank you all
for your patience. I believe our technical difficulties have been resolved. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. For everyone's awareness, we have about 11 individuals who have indicated their
desire to provide public comment who are on the Zoom. We have appeared to-- we've made the best
attempt we can to restore audio to those who are providing it via Zoom.
So we're going to give it another shot. In the event that we are still encountering technical difficulties,
unfortunately, we're going to have to ask those individuals who are online in hopes of providing public
comment to write in with their public comment. But let's see if we can get the audio back. And the first
individual that is up is Anahit LaBarre.
ANAHIT LABARRE: Hi there. Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
ANAHIT LABARRE: Oh, wonderful. Thank you so much. And I really appreciate the opportunity to speak.
And I know this has been a long day for all of you. So I will try to go through my points quickly.
So I'm a deaf/blind individual and I am also a teacher. As educators, we encourage our students to dream,
to be active, to work, to shop, to take part in society, and, believe it or not, to be proud to pay taxes. That
means you are independent. You take responsibility. My students have visual and, at times, developmental
disabilities.
I want to share one example of my student who I have been sharing-- this is the third time that she attempted
to take Access-a-Ride yet again. This was after a surgery, returning home from the hospital. She was on

the bus for three hours after a surgery, recovering. It has been not a very good experience. So I feel like
we have not taken all the necessary steps to have enough information and make informed decisions.
The service is rightfully called a premium service because it works. It means reliability, availability, and a
way to take part in society, giving back as a full participant. Think about it. Throughout these past few years,
so many services have been cut, reduced. I live in the suburbs and I work in Denver. The availability of
public transportation where I live is laughable. It's very difficult to get anywhere. It would take me over two
hours each way to get to work if I took public transportation.
I am scared to use Access-a-Ride. I have used Access-a-Ride before, not very successfully. And I am very
nervous about doing that because my students rely on me to be there on time.
So I would really ask you to be intentional with your decision. Be thoughtful about cutting a program without
a viable alternative. I think this is what I really want to focus on. Right now, there is no good alternative to
this program. So for us who do have jobs and who are expected to be on their job at a certain time, it's
impossible to take Access-a-Ride. I would highly urge to have a third-party study, independent study, with
emphasis on, for Access-a-Ride, timely arrivals and not only timely departures.
Because when we look at Access-a-Ride is now 95% on time to depart. But just like my student, going back
to my student's story, who was on the bus for three hours after a surgery to get home, that is just not a
viable option.
And another thing to keep in mind, we are not making a choice to not drive. It doesn't matter how hard I
work, I will never be able to drive. So this is my only option. This is my only choice. So given the magnitude
of the impact, it is imperative to have a meaningful input from our population. To me, this means having a
meaningful conversation, a meaningful discussion about survey results.
Rather than us just providing our stories and sharing our stories, however powerful, I feel like I don't
necessarily have power because I come, I share stories, I come again two months later, I share stories
again. And I would rather sit down and have a-JULIEN BOUQUET: --wrap up your comments.
ANAHIT LABARRE: Sure. Meaningful discussion, keeping in mind the integrity and the dignity of our
population. That is the end of my comment. Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we will try again with Mr. Triplette, James Triplette.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Triplette. We'll come back.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Next we have Pipi Adams.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Pipi, you're recognized.
JACK KROLL: Pipi, you'll need to unmute.
PIPI ADAMS: Yes. Can you hear me now?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
PIPI ADAMS: All right. Good evening, everyone. Thank you all for giving me the opportunity to speak. My
name is Pipi Adams and I am the president of the National Federation of the Blind's Mile High chapter.
I bet you all are getting tired. This meeting has been very long. And yet, I'm going to say the same things
that many, many people have already said this evening, because we've been saying these things and we
haven't been able to get our words heard, or it does not appear that way.
Like I said, I'm a member of the National Federation of the Blind. This is the largest advocacy organization
of blind people in the world. Throughout all of the studies and things that have been done, the NFB was
never invited to the table. As the president of the Mile High chapter, I wasn't invited to the table, as the
president of the state affiliate, Jessica Beacham, was never invited to the table. This is a problem. It's
nothing about us without us. How can you make decisions without us?
I will also say that this has been frequently called a premium service, Access-on-Demand. How can it be a
premium service when Access-a-Ride is not a service that is getting us to places where we need to go on
time? It may pick us up on time, but the destination drop offs are not on time. This is a huge issue.
I would also like to say that Director Gutschenritter, you are the Director for my district. And I would like to
hold you accountable, and all of the other Directors here, for improving RTD with being able to keep the
TABOR money instead of making these cuts and not improving it. The whole Access-a-Ride and Accesson-Demand is less than 2% of the budget. And yet, this is the place you all are trying to make cuts to. This
is an issue.
I'm sitting at the State Capitol now, which is where I work. And so I would like to say thank you to all of our
representatives and senators who have spoken, who have signed petitions for our rights. And I'll be working
late tonight because I'm on this meeting, which is my choice. But if you do time restrictions, I won't be able
to get home at ridiculous o'clock when I need to. And I won't be able to get here super early to make coffee
for all of our Congress people. That's an issue.
Also, to reiterate, again, there are people, lots of people in Broomfield that live 500 outside of the RTD area.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Pipi, if you could wrap up your comments.
PIPI ADAMS: I sure can, yes.
I would just like to say, please vote no on this. Please invite us to the table. And please, please, please
listen to all of our words tonight and take them in. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next we have Hannah Lawless.
HANNAH LAWLESS: Hello. Can you hear me OK?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can, Hannah.
HANNAH LAWLESS: OK. I'm here to join our community IN advocating against fare increases and reduced
services. We want you to conduct an impact study on the successful transportation system and engage a

third party to do so. We urge you to uphold ballot measure 7A that our community deeply and clearly
supports.
As someone who is disabled, is friends with, and who has directly supported individuals with intellectual
and developmental disabilities for the entirety of my life and in my career for the past five years, I've seen
how crucial these services are to have here. People rely on Access on Demand to access job opportunities,
which are already slim and inaccessible to the disabled community. People rely on them to access
education, communication, support and health care. These are all basic needs and these are human rights.
Access to these services are already being stripped from the disabled community. Healthcare costs are
rising. My friend had a hip replacement that was $250,000, and they'll continue to rise. People who are
houseless are houseless or without shelter, over 400 families are on the waiting list in Denver. Shelters are
physically and intellectual and accessible and filled with abuse. SNAP has been cut. People who receive
disability services are limited to how much money they can have and make. Thousands of people are on
the waiting list for home and community-based services here in Colorado, and special education services
are being cut here and throughout the country.
People are being criminalized for being without housing. People are being punished for needing support in
a community and society built to exclude them. Community organizers and care providers have minimal to
no financial support in your land acknowledgment that you gave at the beginning, you said your intention is
to dismantle the systems against all oppressed people. I believe your vote will show your commitment to
that.
I want you to let this evening, where so many amazing community members came and shared their stories,
to be a reminder that people with disabilities deserve to live fulfilling lives with the love, joy, and success
that's meaningful to them. These proposals are genuinely life threatening, and people need more support
to access their basic needs and beyond, not less, which is what these cuts would do.
Access-on-Demand has been beneficial and has come from the continued advocacy built by the disabled
community that you heard from today.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Hannah. Our next speaker, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Ruth Newell.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ruth. Ruth, if you're speaking, we can't hear you.
JACK KROLL: Ruth, I see that you've unmuted, but it does not indicate that you have started speaking. We
can come back to you, Ms. Newell.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, Ruth.
RICK: Yes. OK, great. So, anyway-RUTH NEWELL: Tell him, actually, you're Rick.
RICK: So I'm Rick. I'm using Ruth Newell's computer. So I just wanted to speak on what I've heard tonight.
And I think it's all incredibly important. And one of the things that I would like to say is I also am an actor. I
also work downtown. I work down at DCPA and Argus Event Staffing, doing security and ushering. And I

just want to say that I really think, in my opinion, that to make the cost worse, I think really does not help. I
think it makes it harder on people. I think it makes it not better.
And in my opinion, I also want to say that the other thing that I think it needs to be brought up, IN my opinion,
is that when you guys have been doing this reconstruction project with RTD, with the light rail for the past
year and a half has kind of been impacted people like us with disabilities. And to have lines be cut FROM
light rails and to have to have services be kind of difficult to get around. And I agree with a bunch of other
individuals that, in my opinion, that need the 24/7 support with Access-on-Demand, I think that's really
crucial, because I think that aspect is really important to people.
And I think honestly, if you guys are going to be cutting this service and making it more expensive, I honestly
think that's going to be a disgrace. And I think that's going to be a disservice to people with disabilities,
especially me, because I have disabilities and I choose not to drive because there are a lot of people that
are not safe on the roads. And in my opinion, I think that this service is incredibly essential to me.
And I would actually strongly urge you to keep what we've been doing or even raise the amount to be even
more for things, especially getting downtown, so it can be more affordable-JULIEN BOUQUET: Rick, if you could wrap up your comment.
RICK: And more cost effective. And that's my opinion. Mom, want to say anything? RUTH NEWELL: Hi, I'm
Ruth, the mom, Ruth Newell. And the one thing I don't think I've heard yet is it's a two-for-one impact.
Because Rick has been able to access Access-on-Demand and get himself to and from work and to and
from activities, it's freed me up to work. So now we have two people that are taxpayers instead of tax takers.
And I think that impact has been very significant in our household, that Rick isn't depending on me only to
get around and for transportation, which frees me up to do my work and get paid. So is that all we have to
say?
RICK: And I think also, the other thing is is that I do know how much Uber and Lyft used to cost before this
Access-on-Demand was available. And let me just tell you that without this service and with you guys
charging, I will just tell you that I will no longer be a service of this candidate of this program, because I do
know that it will charge me. And I do know that I had been on that route. I had been on the route of paying
full price for these things. And I honestly think that it's not worth it, in my opinion.
So, yeah, I think, in my opinion, you guys really should not do this. And I think I strongly urge that you guys
say no to this. Because if you do, as we've heard a bunch of people talk about tonight, including me, it will
not only affect people's health, it'll affect people's jobs, and it will affect people's lives.
RUTH NEWELL: Quality of life, yeah.
RICK: And quality of life. And if you guys do this, that is being a disgrace to Colorado and it's being disgrace
to our people with disabilities. And I think that is not OK. And I think, in my opinion, that that's why having
this meeting is so important. And I think a lot of people have said it, and I'm going to say it again, is I think
just this meeting is really important. And I think voting no on this, I think, would save a lot of people's lives.
That's all I have to say. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you both. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Alicia Cooper.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Alicia.
ALICIA COOPER: Good evening, everyone. I am coming to you not as the Chair of Denver Commission
for People with Disabilities, but as a US Army veteran. I speak on behalf of my community, and for many
of us, Access-on-Demand is not a convenience, it is a lifeline. It is the way we reach urgent medical care,
keep employment, attend therapy appointments, especially of those of us who live with PTSD, and stay
connected to our family and community. And without this, isolation sets in quickly.
The proposal before you that you're trying to vote on tonight, or attempting to vote on tonight, is a 650%
increase. And what I continue to hear is that that number is staggering. It's not a fair adjustment to many of
us, including my fellow veteran brothers and sisters. This is a barrier. No other group of riders is being
asked to bear any such burden.
For veterans like myself, and for countless others living with disabilities, the cost of this increase would
make independence feel like more of a luxury. Our transportation is directly tied to mental health. Without
affordable, reliable ways to move throughout our city that we love, people with disabilities and veterans are
cut off from care and community and purpose. And when isolation deepens, I want you to understand that
depression, anxiety, and even suicidal thoughts are not far behind.
And as a veteran coming from combat in 1998 and 1999, during Operation Fox and Desert Star, that is
significant. We need to be with each other. I know what it means to fight for freedom, but freedom is hollow
if you cannot even afford to leave your home. The military has a saying, you are as strong as your weakest
link. Don't be the weak link.
Your decision tonight will let us know how strong you want us to be, or help us to be. There's also another
saying, be all that you can be. And this is not it. This is not it at all. So this proposal, it's just more than a
price change. It is a disservice to every person that Access-on-Demand was created for, and Denver
citizens voted to sustain RTD with the understanding that equity would guide these decisions. The balance
should not come at the expense of people already carrying the heaviest load.
So I urge you to reject this significant increase, work with the disability and veteran communities to create
solutions. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Appreciate your comments.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Richard Bamber.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Richard.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good evening. Thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. When the voices calling
to save the Access-on-Demand program outnumber the voices to cut it by 1,000 to 1 and leadership still
pushes forward, that is not just a mistake. That is failure. And when leadership fails at this scale, it raises
serious questions about whether those that sit IN the seats of power should remain in their positions at all.
The mark of a civilized society is that we provide for those that need a little extra help. Spending more per
trip for disabled customers to meet their transit needs is simply the right thing to do. As an able-bodied
transit rider, I 100% back the disabled community on this. You can claim that if we don't bring in these cruel
fare increases to reduce the AOD program budget, bus services, such as the 15L and the 31, will have to
be cut instead.

Well, just you try cutting the 15L or the 31. I literally dare you to do that when the city of Denver and CDOT
have kicked off programs that will invest millions into the corridors those routes run. Don't make me laugh
with your empty threats.
I've heard some people in the room are, quote, "tired of this issue, and after 14 meetings, wish it to be put
to bed." Well, half of this room gets to sit in fancy chairs. You got here either using your free transit pass,
or, if you drove, you had free valet parking. OK. And you were even paid for your time and you chose to be
here. The other half of the room has come here on their own time and on their own dime, and are doing all
of that with a disability. They have repeatedly shown up, being polite and even pleaded their case.
Some of the accounts given here tonight have been incredibly moving. To the disabled side, I say, I am
sorry you have to be here again. To the fancy chairs side, boo hoo. The paratransit review was an absolute
sham, and RTD's disabled riders are paying the price. The result was a grade F piece of work that
completely missed the real problems with the paratransit service. I remain speechless, figuratively, that
such an incompetently executed study is being used to justify potentially wrecking the lives of some of our
most vulnerable customers.
Financially, the Board is in the dark and taking a random stab at a potential cost cutting opportunity here.
In the grand scheme of things, you have no idea what you're doing. If I had submitted that excuse for a cost
update memo on August the 29th while I was at university, I'd have flunked the class. Because this isn't
math, it's politics.
For the umpteenth time, get yourself under control-JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Richard.
RICHARD BAMBER: --and get the full set of figures now that breaks down exactly where the financial
inefficiencies of the agency really lie.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. We've got to move on. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Jordyn Castor.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Jordyn, you're recognized.
JORDYN CASTOR: Hey, there. Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, we can.
JORDYN CASTOR: Hello. Oh, perfect. I am a totally blind resident of Boulder, and I first and foremost want
to say how proud I am of every single disabled voice in this room and on Zoom. Advocacy is in our blood
and our bones, and I am in awe of the way that we continue to show up, and I know that we will continue
to show up, because we are here and we're not going anywhere.
I use Access-on-Demand exclusively for work and for leisure. And I wanted to address some comments
made previously. It's not just about being able to ride the bus. If you look at the bus stops, I know the Skip
was mentioned earlier, in regards to Boulder, if you look at the bus stops in Boulder, where does it drop
you off in relation to where you want to go? Are the intersections accessible? Do they have audible
pedestrian signals? Are they safe to cross? Are there sidewalks? Do you have to walk through a parking
lot? Many parts of Boulder are strip malls.

There are only, I believe, when I counted last, nine accessible intersections in Boulder, and we have
advocated, as the National Federation of the Blind, for accessible pedestrian signals in Boulder and have
been denied due to lack of funding. So it is not just whether or not disabled people can take the bus. We
need to be aware of where the bus drops off and picks up. And for a lot of us, me included, Access-onDemand is the only safe and equitable way for me and others to get to work, to get to school, and to get to
events in our community.
The other day, I had a long day and I just wanted to go out with my friends to dinner. So my blind pal and I
hopped in our separate Access-a-Rides and met for dinner and were able to lean on each other for support.
Paying $13 extra on top of dinner prices on top of activity prices disconnects us from our community.
I have never known freedom and independence like I have in Boulder and in the Denver area because of
this service. This service has given me such a improved quality of life. I am choosing to remain living in this
area instead of moving to another state, because we are number one in transit and this is really, really
making a difference.
Y'all vow to make lives better through connections. People with disabilities must not be disconnected. We
must remain connected to our community and to our employment and to our livelihoods in a way that's
meaningful to us. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Jordyn.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Dennis Hlavinka.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Dennis.
JACK KROLL: Dennis, you'll need to unmute. OK, Dennis, we will come back to you. Next, we have-- oh-JULIEN BOUQUET: Dennis?
JACK KROLL: Nope. We'll go with Bradley Miller, and then we'll come back to Dennis.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Bradley.
BRADLEY MILLER: Good evening. Thank you all so much for giving me the opportunity to speak. I am
deeply disturbed by several members of the Board's callous behavior in regards to this issue. When I came
and spoke last time, it was essentially the same meeting and function. And the fact that we're continuing
this conversation well into it's, like, I mean, months and months and months of the same conversation, the
public has been explicit and clear, and it is inexcusable that we continue this behavior, especially given that
the majority of expenditure, as broken down by the Board's budget breakdown, roughly 31%, outside of
salaries and benefits, is for outside services, A great deal of which is consultants that are wasting taxpayer
money, rather than allowing us to actually build the trains and buses and routes that we need to complete,
including FasTracks.
I have not been alive longer than the discussion on FasTracks. It has been 20 years. I moved to Colorado
when I was 2. I have not been sentient longer than this issue has been failed by RTD's Board. And the
current plan to finish FasTracks, as has been presented by this Board, is inexcusable. There have been no
meaningful solutions found to try and find the resources required to finish a project that taxpayers have
been expecting for 20 years. Why on God's green earth would anyone have faith in our Board and in our
organization when we fail to deliver on the projects that we've been expected to deliver for 20 years, due

to financial mismanagement, among other issues? But rather than dedicate our time to fixing that issue, we
decide to gut the one program that is delivering consistently for its residents, that being the disabled
community.
This is a no brainer. We need to gut some of these consultants. We need to stop wasting our time attacking
the disabled community, and we need to finish FasTracks. Mind you, there are Board members who I know
are actively fighting to this task, but the majority has been making fatal decisions on these issues. It is
extremely critical that we adjust our direction and those who fail to adjust direction on this will be replaced.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. We'll try with Dennis again.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Dennis.
DENNIS HLAVINKA: All right. Thanks for your patience this time. And I really hope that you continue to
show patience. And everybody's asking not to make a rash, rushed decision that could literally affect the
lives of lion's share of those who you've been hearing from.
I really do feel like I'm standing on the shoulders of giants, those who presented you with testimony, with
facts, with concerns. And I'm just going to rally behind that champion question of just staying your hand and
allowing time and really inviting us to the table. I mean, we're coming to your table and begging you to
include us to make better decisions.
I'm a person with blindness. I live well outside any bus route that would pick me up. There's an old skeleton
of a chair that I could go sit into that no bus comes to anymore. So this program absolutely allows me to
get to work. And honestly, it only takes kind of a notch out of the toll that it takes me to get there, to come
to the city, to do my work, to teach my students, to take care of-- I'm a beekeeper. We just started enriching
bee program at the Center for the Blind, so I'm in charge of 50,000 little lives, let alone the many students
that come in contact with me in my workplace.
And people say they don't envy you for your seat that you hold. And I'm going to oppose that. I really do.
I'm so envious that you get to sit there, and on the eve, on a hard decision, and these are the good ones,
that you actually get to make a difference not in people's pocketbooks, but in the very many lives of the
stories that you've heard. What a time to live. Like, what a time to be able to actually say, we're going to do
the right thing and we're actually going to honor our mission. We're going to make connections between
people, and we're going to uphold this oath we take to a flag, and we're actually going to put gusto behind
some of these land acknowledgments that we do, that we're actually going to serve a marginalized
community that has been just, for the life of it has been just scraping just to be seen as the same, not just
different.
Because we are, we are worth it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Dennis, if you could wrap up your comments. Thank you.
DENNIS HLAVINKA: Yeah, thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker.

JACK KROLL: Michelle Nichols.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Michelle, you're recognized.
JACK KROLL: Michelle, you'll need to unmute.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Let's come back to Michelle.
JACK KROLL: OK. Next, we have Judy Dixon.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Judy
JACK KROLL: Judy, you'll likewise need to unmute.
JUDY DIXON: Good evening. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak to you all. I haven't been
watching the time. I suspect you have. It's been a long evening.
I would like to echo the point of how impressed I am with the presentations of our community. I am blind. I
have lived in this community all my life. I won't reveal how many years, but it's a lot. The AOD program is
so important to all of us. And I want to tell you two reasons, one you've heard, one you haven't.
I live on a bus route, except it's gone. It was cut. I was very conscientious about ensuring that I lived on a
bus route. I understand that nothing is forever. But this route was cut. That's out of my control. So this
program is critical.
It's critical for another reason. When my husband and I went to apply for this program, I believe it was in
early July of 2023, in Aurora, we were asked to try the Access-a-Ride. I live in Northeast Boulder. We
agreed to do that. We thought that was very considerate. The ride down was wonderful. The driver was
fantastic.
When we completed our application, we boarded the bus and we went from Aurora to South Littleton and
from South Littleton to Northeast Boulder, and it took just about two hours. My husband was frail, part of
the reason he wanted to pass. The bus was particularly uncomfortable. That's nothing to focus on. It's just
a point.
I think that the AOD program is so important because it provides three things, predictability, respect. I am
not naive when I say that 99% of the drivers that I encounter are most respectful and capable, and it
provides a way of being like everyone else. To be late to work when one gets off an Access-a-Ride and is
being watched by employees, other employees, customers, is humiliating. When one is frail to go from
Aurora to South Littleton to Northeast Boulder is truly difficult.
Thank you for your time. I am hopeful that you will make very good decisions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Judy, for your comments. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes, we are going to try with Michelle Nichols.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Michelle.
JACK KROLL: Michelle, you'll need to unmute. Michelle, you're still not unmuted.

MICHELLE NICHOLS: OK. Now, can you hear me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: We can hear you.
MICHELLE NICHOLS: Yes?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
MICHELLE NICHOLS: OK. My name is Michelle Nichols and I am proud to say that I have worked for 14
years at the Arc call center. And I was using Access-a-Ride before Access-on-Demand, and the service for
Access-a-Ride was absolutely atrocious. I mean, I'd get to work on time, but sometimes would get picked
up late, late at night.
And the cuts that are being considered, I would say, are going to be very dangerous to not only me, but my
coworkers, especially our assistant supervisor, who's visually impaired, because she cannot leave until all
of us are picked up. And should we have to go back to using Access-a-Ride, we get off at 3:15 in the
afternoon, which is like the height, the beginning of rush hour. And although we have a foyer that we can
sit in and wait, there is a huge homeless encampment across the street from us.
And being forced to go back to waiting long periods of time for Access-a-Ride, you know what? You're
forcing us to put ourselves at risk of maybe being robbed or worse. And my worst fear is that because our
assistant supervisor would have to leave last, she's going to be stuck there by herself in a very dangerous
neighborhood. And that's not OK.
And also, I use Access-on-Demand to go to the grocery store, to go to church. And I need to have
unrestricted access because this also enables me to get to doctor's appointments on time. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Michelle. Our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. We're going to try James Triplette again. James, you'll need to unmute. James, you're
still not unmuted.
Chairman Bouquet, this is the last speaker raising their hands online.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Triplette, I'd recommend sending them, most likely via email comments, then.
Apologies for not being able to reach you.
Are there any other speakers in person? OK. Could you approach the podium one at a time?
DAWN RUSSELL: Is it working? OK. Hi. I'm Dawn Russell with ADAPT. The truth is clear. AOD is the most
cost effective option RTD operates. It saves money, expands mobility, and reduces reliance on Access-aRide. What is unsustainable is introducing a new program, such as WAV on demand, with no budget
approval, then burying those costs with AOD to make it appear broken.
The Board and the public deserve accurate, transparent reporting. If the General Manager cannot provide
reliable data or continues to mischaracterize costs, that is a failure of leadership, not to the program.
It's well past time that the agency comes out its public relation closet and moves openly among the
community in the light of truth and inclusiveness. RTD's credibility depends on it. Riders' independence and
access to opportunity depend on it even more. Our region and state demand it. You do not have sufficient

information to make a decision of this magnitude. You must fully reject the proposal, conduct an impact
study, and honor ballot measure 7A.
Like in the past, ADAPT is willing to do whatever it takes to ensure our right to ride like everyone else.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker.
MARY HENNIG: Hi, my name is Mary Hennig. I'm a disability advocate and retired elementary special
education teacher. In these two roles, I have dedicated a lot of time to helping people. That's why I continue
to show up here.
Prior to having my own son with special needs, I had a very successful career in business. Disability can
send your life on a trajectory that you never imagined. But it's not bad. It's just different. Having this dual
expertise gives me a critical lens to see that there's something really broken in a process that has been
going on for this long. So much back and forth with fares and subsidies and service hours. Board members
and the community here have asked for data and staff has provided nonsense.
Disability is complicated, but you have a lot of experts here. We want to help. Show me the data. I'll help
you make sense of it.
You have in front of you 440 names on a letter of people who came forward in just one week's time through
a grassroots effort to ask that you wholly reject the proposal, you conduct an impact study, and you honor
ballot measure 7a.
A no vote does not mean that you failed. You will garner much goodwill from the community by voting no,
but will invoke a tsunami of backlash by voting yes. That is not a threat. That is just a fact.
Director Paglieri, I'm looking to you specifically as my representative on this Board to vote no. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker.
[? BOB
DERNIER: ?] Hi, everybody. I'm Bob Dernier with ADAPT. God bless our democracy. Thank you for your
patience. God bless independent living. And God bless Don Russell.
Where'd the TV cameras go? I'm having a bad hair week, so it's OK.
I want to give a quick shout out to Director Peggy Catlin for her many years of honorable service. Thank
you, Peggy. Your calm dignity in stressful times will be missed. How about a hand? How about a hand for
Peggy?
Never before in my life have I witnessed a phenomenon of compromising before even coming to the
negotiating table. Now the disability community finds itself compromised by false choices. $6.50? $4.50?
$2.50? No. We all pay. We all pay sales tax. 97% of this district's population never rides RTD, but we all
pay sales tax. Providing the transit dependent with services is your bare bones basic mission.
You cannot manage what you do not measure. I'm sorry. We all know RTD's credibility is at historic lows.
An independent impact study has to be priority one. Don't be fooled by the shifting numbers, three-card

Monte being passed off as actual data. $20 for AOD or $100 for AAR? Easy choice, right? Who benefits
from the more expensive option? You need to follow the money.
We call on the Board to show some backbone. A little dose of personal and political courage is needed
here. Slow down, as you were just implored. Let the data drive you. You do not have sufficient information
to make such a momentous decision.
You must fully reject the proposal, commission an independent impact study, and honor the promises of
last year's ballot measure 7A. A no vote is not destructive. It will mean a healthy reinvigoration of RTD's
paratransit offerings.
Leadership takes courage. We need unselfish, honorable leaders, not rubber stamps. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Bob. Next speaker.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: All right. My name is Dr. Claudia Folska, former director of District D, two terms, for
the Regional Transportation District. I was going to read this to you tonight, but I can't, because I can't see.
So we made sure that each of you had a copy of this with every single person who signed it up until 12:30
this afternoon. That number is 440. I'm sure it has passed 500 by now. I don't even know what time it is.
I wanted to-- oh, can I have a little extra time, Mr. Chair, please, as a courtesy?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I can give you an extra minute. We're on record for public comment, so I'll give you an
extra minute.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: All right, so let's talk a little bit about the information that we do know. We know that
Access-on-Demand has profoundly impacted the lives of everyday people in an incredible way. And for the
last 21 months, twice a month, you've been hearing this.
We also know that when Access-on-Demand and Access-a-Ride was going to the airport, everything was
fine. And then one day Access-a-Ride couldn't go to the airport. Did your General Manager figure out what
the problem is? No. Did the people who use Access-a-Ride and promote Access-a-Ride, CCDC, who meet
with Debra Johnson once a month for the last three years? No.
But, Mr. Curtis Chong, who is a blind person, he did. He went out to DIA and knocked on the door of the
transit department and said, hey, how come we can't get our Access-a-Ride vans in here anymore? And
they said, oh no, no, no, you can. And he's like, well, how does that happen? They said, oh, you just need
this little transponder. We put it in the windshield. It opens the gate. And then he says, well, how much is
that? Well, you can have it for free, as many as you want.
These are the same people who are providing you information tonight. If you vote yes on this, you're as
dumb as a chicken who votes for Colonel Sanders. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, former Director Folska. Are there any other public participants?
OK. Were any emailed comments received for today's meeting, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes. You all received 44 email communications, the vast majority of which related to Accesson-Demand. You did, however, receive additional emails related to service from Longmont to DIA, as well
as email comments related to Front Range Passenger Rail, the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, and

the railroad light rail crossing at Havana and Smith Road. These will all be appended to the official transcript
of the meeting.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue, we will now close public
comment.
We're now moving on to our next action item, and that's for the external entities report. And there are no
external entity reports for this month.
We're now moving on to action items. As I mentioned previously, in response to anticipated public interest,
the Executive Committee elevated three items, the Access-on-Demand program modifications, the Accesson-Demand contract extensions, and the finishing FasTracks report. The first two related to Access-onDemand replacing a dedicated section of the agenda under header 9, Action Items. Each item will be
introduced, discussed, and voted on individually. Once finished, the Access-on-Demand action items, we
will move to a discussion on the Finishing FasTracks report.
The first action item, Action Item A, is for the Access-on-Demand program modifications, as amended, for
the Board of Directors to approve modifications to the supplemental premium Access-on-Demand, AOD
service, for RTD's paratransit customers, as amended, described herein, effective January 1, 2026. Do I
have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Secretary Nicholson as the mover.
IAN HARWICK: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Who's the second? Harwick is the second. Is there discussion on this? Yes, Director
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you all for coming here tonight and for the letters
we've been sent. I would like to make a motion to amend the fare in this proposal from $6.50 to $4.50.
I respect and appreciate staff's efforts. I understand the financial issues that we are facing, and I think it's
important to say that no one on this Board or in the staff is making this decision cavalierly or heartlessly. I
believe this is too big a jump right now for our customers with disabilities until we have really studied Accessa-Ride and our paratransit options as a whole. I think we do need to charge a sustainable fare to maintain
this program and to move it forward.
I am hesitant to make this motion because we need to make decisions tonight, and I don't like late motions,
but I think it's important to move to a more complete study. And I think it's important to add a sustainable
fare.
So I am making a motion to change the fare to $4.50.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Would this also include the LiVE program at $2.25?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Do we have a second? I have Caitlin as the second. Discussion on the
amendment? Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for everyone that's stuck with us tonight. I
don't feel like it's been too long. I appreciate everyone that showed up. I think we must have heard from
100 people tonight. And I appreciate the 99 people that didn't turn it into a cruel version of prime minister's
questions.
I have been a no vote on this. I've been a no vote the first time. I was a no vote on committee, and I'm a no
vote tonight. It's not an applause. It's just, I have a belief that fundamentally, this program is exactly what
we should be doing first and not last. And I think that's the discussion that we've been caught up in is what's
pushing what over the budget.
And one thing substantive, I'm also a new member of-- I'm sorry, Director Harwick, Chairman Harwick-- I'm
a new member of your committee, at least for a few more months. And I've learned a lot about this program,
and I've learned a lot from everyone who showed up and spoke. And I've also learned a lot from
management. And I think assuming best intentions, at least first, is the way to go. And I don't think we need
to put a light on the degradation of discourse in this country and the insinuation of unpure motives or
anything. It's easier to go through life not leading with that.
So as we go forward and improve this program, I think it's going to be important for us to have that attitude
together. And I know that I can count on Debra Johnson to carry that forward.
I think, I appreciate what Director Guissinger is doing. Vote for it. It makes it better. It makes it what I think
is an idea that I don't support better. I don't think this is a holistic view of our paratransit system. And that's
the thing that I've learned. There are a lot of things broken. The fact that we have to send ambling buses
down to substitute for Ubers as a WAV vehicle is just not an effective trade. If Access-on-Demand is
providing that value, then I think we should be looking at adding smaller WAV vehicles that aren't going to
carry the cost, that aren't going to get out of sequence or be halfway across town.
And so I'd ask that we support this because it makes it better. I don't know what happens after. But I also
ask that we take a step back and look at this program holistically and rather than just trying to ratchet down
on Access-on-Demand as a single program. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Chair. You know, I was asked earlier if I would support this $4.50 concept.
And initially I thought, well, maybe that's the best compromise. Maybe that's the best we can do. But the
more I think about it, I'm with Director O'Keefe, and I've been a no vote from the very beginning as well,
because I don't believe we should impact this community of riders when able-bodied riders are riding buses
with incredible headways and getting to and from without any issue.
Our staff report says to balance this, we'd have to have an equivalent reduction in fixed bus rosters by
3.3%. Part of me thinks, well, OK, let's do that. Because to those riders, typically, as a generalization, that
may result in an inconvenience. But when you do what we're attempting to do to the disabled community
here, it's a life changing event.
So I agree with Director O'Keefe. I can't support any of these scenarios. So I'm a no vote overall. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Nicholson.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. No one on this Board knows for certain what the right amount
of money is to spend on services for the disability community. There's no amount of study that can tell you
what the right percentage of overall spending should be. It's fundamentally a values question.
I've thought more about AOD than any other agenda item this year. In that time, a few numbers have
shaped my thinking on this issue. $50 million, that's the shortfall RTD is facing this year due to declining
sales tax revenue. $5 million, that's the savings for 2026 being proposed in the agenda item tonight. 3,639,
that's the headcount of RTD, people whose payroll may face cuts next month when we discuss the budget.
127%, that's how much AOD has grown year over year in 2025. If that growth continues, per numbers from
CFO Mackey tonight, the program will cost over $30 million in 2029. And that's even with the changes that
we're talking about tonight.
This Board has considered multiple options. In our packet, two of them have about the same $15 million
cost. Scenario three has a $4.50 fare. The recommended action has multi-stop and district-wide availability.
Most audience members still just want us to vote no. The legislators asked us to just vote no.
Let's be clear about one thing. We do not have a cost estimate for a multi-stop program with a $4.50 fare.
Any Board member could have asked staff for those numbers after the OSS committee meeting. All of us
had two weeks to do so. None of us did.
It is fundamentally irresponsible for us to pick an option tonight that's not in our packet and play Calvinball
with our budget. It would make a joke out of us being good fiduciaries. We have incredibly hard
conversations coming next month as part of the budget. My fellow Directors and I have a straightforward
choice. Where does the disability community fit in the balance of all of our other responsibilities?
After July, our Operations Chair worked extremely hard to craft a fare package with staff. The disability
community asked for multistop. It includes that now. They asked for district.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Order.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: They asked for district-wide coverage. It includes that now. It does not include a cut
to $4.50, despite that being a major priority for Chair Harwick personally, who negotiated this. I know not
including that was quite painful for him.
One of the people I've known longest in Colorado is a rabbi with an autistic son. He regularly hosted me for
Shabbat when I first moved here. I learned this month his son relies on Access-on-Demand. The fear of
that conversation after this meeting gave me real pause, and it still does.
The fundamental choice is whether we want to trust our people and the compromise that they drafted, or
throw caution to the wind and write the policy as a group right here in the meeting. I said at my first meeting
that our decisions hurt people. That's why we have a policy making process, so that we can make the best
decisions we can, despite the emotional challenge of doing so.
Let's follow our process. I am a no on this irresponsible amendment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir, for recognizing that I have arrived. I apologize. I was in class, somewhat
ironically, a public policy administration class on public finance.

I just wanted to say that I very much appreciate my colleague Director Guissinger's opening statement and
her comments in asking us to go back to the $4.50. Because that was the $4.50 that was on the table for
over 18 months before a few weeks ago, we decided we would raise it to $6.50. And for everyone's
edification, in just the spirit of transparency-- I apologize, I didn't realize my video wasn't on.
That $4.50 number was on the table. In fact, the Chair's proposal of two months ago was on the table with
staff in a meeting that was recorded at Blake Street in March. So what Director Guissinger brings forth is
reasonable. I appreciate it. But just as I had discomfort in March, I have discomfort tonight. I do not know if
I will vote yes on this amendment. But I do appreciate my colleagues who are doing their best to stem the
bleeding that is coming. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Thank you. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes. Thank you, everybody, for coming tonight. It's been a long night.
A couple of things. One is, just to make everyone know. I think most of the folks here tonight know this. But
some of the debate that's been going on, they've not mentioned the low income option too, which I think
folks need to at least know that if you are low income, the fare would be cut in half. So for those that don't
have that information, at least you know that now.
Here's the reason at least part of this proposal is important for my district. There's a big change that's being
made that no one has talked about tonight, which I'm sort of surprised. And that is, we would be moving
from who would be eligible for AOD from 3/4 of a mile from a fixed route bus service, bus route, to the entire
RTD district. For my district, that means Broomfield gets service, Erie gets service, and much of Longmont
gets service, which we do not have right now because we don't have many fixed route bus service.
So this expansion of the program to everybody, not just those living in a certain area, is very, very important
for my district. So I'm not quite sure what is going to happen and how the votes are going to occur, but the
expansion of the program to the entire RTD district is very important for the folks that I serve.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree wholeheartedly with Director Benker, and that is
one of the reasons why I do support this is because in my district as well, I have limited service. And by
having it expanded, it gives service that there was no service before.
So colleagues, I just need to say this plainly. RTD has not been innovative and flexible in how we serve our
disability community, and I am disappointed. The people who rely on us most deserve better. We need a
wholesale change in how we deliver paratransit service. For me, that change begins with Access-onDemand . This program should be the standard, because it does provide dignity and flexibility and real
access for those who are truly transit dependent.
And I will support this amendment tonight, but only for the clear understanding that I will continue to push
for a complete assessment of our paratransit services. And what is before us is not better. It's limiting, and
we can do better. We must do better. And I'm committed to making sure we do.
| ask each of you as Board members to join me. Let's hold ourselves and RTD accountable and deliver the
service our community truly deserves. Thank you.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. I'm going to go to Director Harwick, since he was the Chair of
OSS, to explain what changed and what's being proposed and what these modifications are in regards to
what you negotiated as Board members.
IAN HARWICK: So we've been here for 18 months. We've been listening to the disability community. We've
been talking amongst ourselves and trying to find a way to find a sustainable way to move this forward. And
we heard that the community wanted multistops. We figured out a way to bring multistops to the community.
We heard that they wanted an expanded service area. We were able to bring that into the process.
There will be the two-hour window where we will not be able to run service, because the WAV vehicles
need to be able to receive maintenance. But they'll still, that this will still be operating roughly 22 hours a
day. And so while there is that limit, for a little bit of a limit for some people, for the most part, we will still be
able to provide almost 24/7 service. And then we've also lowered the time frame in which people can apply.
So we really did try to listen to the community and hear what they had to say. I have other things to say,
which I will go to after this? Or can I just bleed into it? I can separate them.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We technically right now are debating the amendment.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, so that's fine. That's what I thought. But really, we really have tried to listen to the
community and meet them where they're at.
And I understand that people want other things. I understand that there's a split of people that want this to
go on for free. And I get that, I do. And then there are people that want the study. And I will talk about that
next, in my next time. But thank you. And I think that covers it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Committee Chair. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Directors Benker and Chandler expressed what I wanted to say,
and that is, and I heard a number of people tonight say that they lived in the mountain communities, or in
my district. And I really support this expanded coverage across the District, because there's nothing in my
district. There are no routes that currently qualify under the Access-a-Ride program. So I very much support
that.
And as I understand it, the amendment as proposed by Director Guissinger is really to keep intact the
proposal, as Director Harwick described it, with all of those features, and it just would merely reduce the
fare to $4.50 and would reduce the LiVE part to the $2.25.
So I just wanted to say that I think that there are a lot of features in this proposal that were negotiated,
thanks to Director Harwick, that I think are very positive. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Ruscha. You're on mute, Director.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I have a question for our parliamentarian. And sometimes that is
Director Guzman, sometimes it's Mr. Kroll, and sometimes it's Ms. Snyder, and sometimes it's me. And
sadly, we don't have Doug. I'm pretty sure I know the answer, but I would like to make a motion to lay this
over. And I just want to clarify-- confirm, excuse me-- I cannot do so until we have gotten through this
amendment. Can you confirm that, Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOUQUET: That is correct.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And just since you're the Chair and you're running the show, would you
prefer I hold my comment until I make my motion or just get it out of the way, since it also pertains to the
motion on the table?
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're happy to make your comment.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I would like to make-- I will make a motion later, when appropriate,
to lay this over until after we have had our October and November-- so I would say after our November
Finance and Planning meetings, because that is when we will have an appropriate, more holistic picture of
our budget.
As it's been noted, we didn't do an impact study, which is per FTA guidelines. And I noted we unfortunately
didn't follow our own Board policy regarding our advisory committees, including the CAC. But really, we
haven't done a full budget analysis. And getting rapid fire, last minute budget memos before a meeting on
a topic that's going to impact thousands on a particular service when we're not considering other aspects
of our budget or other services, I just feel is a little too cart before the horse, if you're playing transit bingo.
So that would be my case to hold this over until we have a full, proper budget picture of what we're really
looking at and we're not speaking in hyperbole. Thank you, Mr. Chair. When I am allowed to make my
motion later, I will not repeat myself.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with Director Ruscha. We can't be irresponsible with
our budget. This is millions of dollars. And I didn't run for this office to make stuff up on the fly, especially
when it comes to being a fiduciary.
So I actually just have one question for GM/CEO Johnson, and really for CFO Mackey. If we pass this
amendment and then pass the recommended action, how much more money will that cost?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, you may.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Debra Johnson, General Manager, Chief Executive Officer. Secretary Nicholson, thank
you for your question.
I'm going to yield the floor momentarily to Erin Vallejos, who has been working diligently on this initiative for
several, several months. But first and foremost, going back to what was said initially, we did have $4.50 on
the table and had brought those numbers forward. And so I believe that we can address that, recognizing
the modifications that were made during the July meeting cycle, as we move forward.
One thing that I did want to impart relative to the other comments that have ensued, the subsequent Board
action that is in the packet this evening has to do with contract amendments and extensions. And I'd be
remiss if I did not state the contracts that we currently have sunset December 31 of 2025.
And the reason why I broached that is recognizing whatever happens. we're trying to leverage a contract
extension moving forward for the continuity of the program. Absent that, we won't have an opportunity to
be diligent and put forward scope of work for potential future contracts for the program, whatever this Board
deems that to be moving forward.

So I wanted to share this at this time, because I think it's germane to the discussions. And for all those that
have taken time out of their evening to advocate for the continuity of the Access-on-Demand program,
which we have clearly heard over the course of 18 months, that have altered people's lives and provided
them with freedom and flexibility to live independently.
So with that, I'll yield the floor to Ms. Vallejos. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Vallejos.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Good evening, everyone. Erin Vallejos, Acting Deputy Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations.
So while I would not be comfortable giving this number down to the dollar, we have run quite a few
scenarios. So I do feel that I can give a pretty good estimate of what this would mean for the program. So
we'd be looking about going for just the trip subsidy portion, that would go from about 15.2 to about 17.4.
So we would be looking at approximately an additional $3.2 million into next year.
And then when I do look again, that is trip subsidy specifically. And then when I do look at where we were
at with the projected WAV costs, we were at about 14.8. And again, I would not be comfortable getting
down to the specific dollar, but I do think these are close for your consideration this evening.
And with that, I am looking-- we're going to stay, yeah, because it doesn't have some of the impacts on the
trips per month that we're impacting quite as much. We do anticipate the WAV costs to be pretty similar.
So we are looking at about an additional $3.2 million in trip subsidy.
I will also add that while I do anticipate that the not-to-exceed amount that we've put forth for the contract
extensions into next year, I do think that would be sufficient. There is the possibility with these changes that
we may have to come back and ask for an additional increase to that. Right now, I do think that will probably
be sufficient, but I do just want to caveat that as well.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Vallejos. Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just as a quick follow-on question to that. The thing that's concerning to me is, when
you think about the changes to multistop for this, when you go down from $6.50 to a $4.50 fare, a $6.50
fare, when you have the multistop limitations, has a very different implication for the cost of the program,
which is why it increases the-- what am I trying to say?
Essentially, how does the addition of multistop change the analysis of the numbers that you have put
together? Because I understand how you could look at it different, how it might be easier to analyze without
multistop. How does that affect your projections here? Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yes. Erin Vallejos, Acting General-- I forgot my title. Acting Deputy Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations. Sorry, it's been a long night.
Where we are seeing what we anticipate our impacts of the multistop is that trips are going to become
longer. And therefore, we anticipate the average trip cost that a customer would be taking to start to creep
up. And so that's where the multistop really comes into play with our analysis, as we think customers are

going to begin to get higher, closer to that trip subsidy that we're proposing. And so that's really, I think, the
biggest impact that we've seen with the multistop in our calculations.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much.
OK. We are going to go to a vote in regards to the amendment. And as again, the amendment was
introduced by Director Guissinger, that would lower the base fare to $4.50. And then that was seconded by
Director Catlin, and it would lower the LiVE to $2.25. Those would be the only changes that would be
happening based on what came out of OSS earlier this month. OK?
I'm going to take Chair's privilege prior to us taking the vote. I saw the $6.50 come out. We were at $.450,
as Director Ruscha pointed out, in July. We had the votes. We had the support for this. And it is a very,
very difficult decision. And I've heard from multiple individuals today, and tonight, about paying something
into it, that if we can find some way, if we can find some way to reduce that ultimately and try to make this
as accessible for people as possible, and at the same time, I'm worried and I fear if we don't make
modifications to this program, what the future of the program will be, and if it financially runs wild or not.
But I think this is a fair compromise. I think that this is us trying to balance out a very, very difficult decision.
And that's what I'll say with my Chair's privilege. I'm going to the vote for the amendment.
Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, but only as a protest vote. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. And I'm a yes. I have 10. The
amendment will pass 10 to 15-- or 10 to 5, excuse me.
OK. We're now back to the original motion, as amended. Is there any further discussion? Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So December 3, 2024, former Board Chair Erik Davidson said, and I quote, "I'd also
just like to note and thank the public for their faith and trust in the agency." That was with respect to the
passing of 7a. I'm going to repeat here what I said last time. I advocated to my constituents, elected officials,
and to the Greater Denver community that if voters passed 7A, we were going to keep our commitment that
we would not increase fares. And that's exactly what we're doing.
I can't break that faith or that trust, because I worked hard to earn it for RTD in conjunction with several
other Directors, some who are no longer with us. So I'm going to be a no vote on this, and I'm going to
stand with community who have spoken clearly. I also respect-- Director Ruscha, you're unmuted. Thank
you. I also respect and honor that Chair Harwick did great work in trying to get this through the committee,
and I thank the committee members for their receiving this back, as my motion to commit sent this back to
the committee for one more chance to bring something forward that we could work with tonight.
I would point out simple math. Currently, if I were to go jump on the bus without my Board pass, I would
pay $2.75. At a 650% increase, that would make my trip $17.88 with no change back. If I were to use the
capping that we use, the $88 a month for the monthly fare, at a regular rate, that would be five bus trips in
one direction unlinked.

Now let's do the math for the A line. $10, $6.50. $65 a pop. That is 1.3 trips on the A line from Denver Union
Station to Denver International Airport. Not even two full trips, and I'd be at that maximum. So I don't see
the logic here.
And I have to admit, I am lost in these numbers, and I respect the great amount of work that staff has done
to bring this to us. But I cannot support it. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Any further comments? Director Buzek, and then Director
Harwick.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks. And I agree with Director Guzman. You know, it's not $6.50, it's $4.50. But
it's still an incredible fare increase. And again, I'll be a no vote. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Harwick and then Director Ruscha.
IAN HARWICK: I just, I have a couple-- one, I have two questions, and then I just kind have a little bit of a
rant. Is it possible to have the fare increase go into effect when the program modifications go into effect?
ERIN VALLEJOS: Director Harwick, I apologize if I'm not understanding, but I think everything was to go in
effect January 1. So program modifications and the fare would all be in effect at the same time, based on
the recommended action before you. If anyone else is reading this differently, but I thought everything would
go into-IAN HARWICK: Oh, I thought, I was under the impression that you had to go in, with the new RFP, you
would have to-- the changes wouldn't go into effect until after that was done.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, for further clarification, as indicated previously, we would be doing a modification.
With that being said, we would be putting out a scope of work for open and fair competition, which would
give us greater ability to morph various aspects of the program as we go forward, potentially having options,
getting back to the conversations that have ensued relative to being innovative and creative. And Director
Chandler and I have had these conversations, so I'm sort of calling her out without calling her out from the
vantage point that it gives us that greater flexibility from the outset, as we move forward to ascertain who
in the marketplace could provide services that would meet the needs as stipulated by the program mods.
Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK. So now I have another question for you, Erin. So on page 17, it looks like pretty much
all of the major increases in this, all across all six scenarios, is somewhere between $12 million and $15
million a year, all tied to the utilization of the wheelchair accessible vehicles tied back to the Access-onDemand program. And then I'm looking at page 18 shows that roughly right now, we're doing 116 AOD
WAV trips per day.
So when I do that math, the estimated subsidy-- and I even increased this to 150 trips a day-- that brings a
WAV vehicle subsidy to about $270 per trip. And I don't understand how that's possible. So if you-JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll have order. Thank you.

IAN HARWICK: If you could just-- Hey, come on, Claudia.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We'll have order. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: I just, if you have some ability, if you could just-JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick, thank you.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yes, I'd be happy to get into more of the specifics offline. But with the wheelchair
accessible vehicle component of this, while it seems counterintuitive, we do lose some of those cost
efficiencies that actually occur when we do Access-a-Ride and there are shared trips. So a lot of things like
that lead into those additional costs. And again, the vehicles are going further because we have the
expanded boundaries, so that does lead to additional time that we are paying for those revenue hours under
our paratransit service contracts, which is how the program was originally set up.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Any other questions?
IAN HARWICK: I do. Now here's a little bit of my rant.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure.
IAN HARWICK: Oh, sorry. This is my last question. So then the $15 million that we expect to be utilized,
between 12 and 15 a year, we also, we currently have a contract for $65 million with Transdev and MV.
The $12 million to $15 million, is that already accounted for in the $65 million, or is that in addition to the
$65 million that we're already paying them?
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yes. So in the beginning, before we have the new contracts in place, some of that will
probably be absorbed by the paratransit contracts. But again, as we are continuing to not necessarily see
a decline in our Access-a-Ride trips, we're not necessarily anticipating to see a tremendous decline in the
paratransit costs as well.
But as we have talked about wanting some of that additional flexibility, we are going to be pulling out a
separate budget so that we can look at bidding this a little bit differently. Bidding might be the wrong word.
When we do our request for information, solicitation, excuse me, we are looking at additional opportunities
for flexibility. Doesn't necessarily mean that some of these forecasts will necessarily change, but we are
looking at ways that we can provide that service differently.
So in addition to some of the cost impacts we've discussed, we're hoping to minimize some of those
elements that we've also discussed with degrading our service for our Access-a-Ride customers.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. You just took away my rant because you're doing what I was going to ask for.
But I do have one last thing and then I'm done. Let's see here. And I wrote this out. So beyond this, I believe
that whatever we decide here tonight, we need to look at two different things moving forward. One, we need
to look at our data, and we really need to better understand the full scope of Access-a-Ride and AOD. So
I'm starting to put together some questions that I think would be good to give us a better view into what's
going on with those and help us all make decisions and specifically help OSS look at this more holistically.

And I also fully support looking at a study. But I think we should look at a study that's not just AOD and AAR
but also looking at FlexRide and our partnership programs that provide on-demand services, because I
think they all provide semi complimentary services. And it would be good to see what's working in some
areas, what's not working in other ones, and be able to look at them all together and figure out, are there
cost efficiencies, are there ways that we can do this better, are there, we can spend our money in different
ways?
And so, as we move forward, my plan is to work with staff to do both of these, to look at our data from a
new perspective and then also look at a study as well. So again, I can't thank you all enough for coming
and speaking to us. I know that this has been a long process, a long, scary process for you all. And I know
that we hold your lives in our hands. And so I appreciate you coming to fight and to share your truth with
us.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Harwick. Director Ruscha, and then Director Nicholson.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have clarifying questions, A question on the rules you set prior
in terms of our time, if that's OK.
I do have a couple of-- I have a question for staff regarding procurement, but I also have just closing final
comments. May I ask the question and then do my comments at the end? I didn't understand your
directions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, absolutely.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, sir. So when we got the memo that said that the costs for on-demand,
the WAV costs were $14 or $15 million, and we'd also heard in live meetings that we were taking some of
our-- excuse me-- Access-a-Ride fleet off the road to meet on-demand needs so that we were ADA
compliant, I did not understand at the time, and I still don't understand now, how we could have done that
without the Board being notified, because wouldn't that have required some sort of change order?
This is not an accusation of our GM/CEO. I just don't understand the process and the dollar amounts of
those changes, and those contract terms amendments were not shared with the Board or put in the packet.
So if anyone could answer how we were legally able to do that and what happened behind the scenes, I'd
feel a little bit better before we move forward tonight. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Director Ruscha, thank you for the question.
Please be clear, everyone as a collective, that staff did not do anything nefarious relative to usurping the
terms and conditions of a contract, recognizing that we have two paratransit programs, as we have talked
about for a period of time, one being the ADA-mandated paratransit program and the Access-on-Demand,
the supplemental premium. As we move forward, recognizing that the ADA-- excuse me, the AOD program,
by which the TNCs and the taxicab companies did not have adequate supplement of WAVs, wheelchair
accessible vehicles, in order to complete rides without creating any disparate treatment, we leveraged our
Access-a-Ride vehicles, or cutaways, to complete said trips. That was not deviating from a contract.
RTD owns the Access-a-Ride vehicles, the cutaways. Those are RTD vehicles that contractors utilize in
some instances. We do have paratransit services that are provided by non-determined, or non-destined

ADA providers, i.e. taxicabs, utilizing taxicabs that do have WAV vehicles accessible as well. So I just want
to be clear that it wasn't a contract modification. These are RTD owned cutaways that are used for services.
Ms. Vallejos, do you want to add, or if I misstated something, please feel free to correct my statements.
Thank you.
ERIN VALLEJOS: GM/CEO Johnson, I don't think you misstated anything. But I do think an important thing
to note, Director Ruscha, is that we are still obligated to fall within our contractual not-to-exceed amounts
that are approved by the Board. And that doesn't change. So if for some reason we were anticipating to
spend more than the contract amounts that were approved by the Board, I believe, I don't know the exact
month, but it would have been prior to starting service July 1, 2023 with these service contracts, we would
have to come back to the Board for that approval if that not-to-exceed was going to change.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, very quickly. Thank you so much, staff, for that.
I am still a bit confused. Because the Board-- and this was in OSS, and I remember voting against it because
of the large amount and not being able to see the contract terms. It was early in 2023, February or March.
It's in the Board documents. The Board authorized, both in that vote and the Board vote and in the budget,
Access-a-Ride services. We never authorized pulling away from Access-a-Ride to meet an on-demand
demand. And I'm sure, had we been asked to help problem solve the ADA issue, we would have come to
the table. But that was not the Board authorization. Hence, the agency, under-- they didn't have the right.
So unless there was some other vote I'm not aware of, that's not what we voted on. And I remember,
because I was very impassioned in my no vote because of the amount and the contractors that were
selected and omitted. Thank you, sir. I have no other questions. I did feel that was worth getting out for the
record.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. OK. Oh, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thanks. So when we were in committee on this, I made a motion to amend this
measure to reduce the LiVE fare. And I made that motion because I had a long conversation with Brian
Grewe, who's sitting in the middle of the thing right there, who runs Atlantis Community. Atlantis, for those
who don't know is a facility that was founded by Wade Blank, who we just renamed the station for, and it
serves individuals with disabilities who are low income.
So we're talking people who make $1,000 a month on SSDI, people who, as he pointed out to me,
sometimes only have $150, $200 in discretionary income in a month for groceries and everything else. And
in the proposal that we're talking about right now, which we amended to make it cheaper for people, for
everybody, we are still asking that guy, who has $200 a month, to spend $120 of it on fares for AOD.
If we can justify to ourselves making cuts, or sorry, making changes to make the fare a little bit more
affordable for people like us who sit around the table, who make regular amounts of money, I think we have
a moral obligation, a very fundamental one, to ask ourselves what we're going to do for the guys making
$15,000, $20,000, $25,000, the people who can't earn a living and don't have, for whom $2.25 is a lot of
money, is a ton of money.
So I'm going to make a very simple amendment. We should not be balancing our books on the backs of
the very poor. The LiVE fare should be 0. So I'd like to amend the motion to reduce the LiVE fare to nothing.

So it'll be $4.50 and 0. If we're serious about our commitment to equity, if we're serious about our
commitment to taking care of people with disabilities, who have and face genuine financial challenges,
which we heard about from, I don't know, 15, 20 people in the audience, then we should take seriously our
commitment to take care of people who do not have money the way that we do. So that's my motion.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Nicholson is the motion. And then Paglieri is the second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Pardon me, Mr. Chair, for interrupting.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I wanted to-- if you'll permit it. I wanted to ask the movant if he would consider a friendly
amendment so I don't make a second one. And again, I apologize, I can't get your attention from the screen.
Having an issue.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: It depends on what the friendly amendment is, but I'm open to it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And if tech could maybe-- if someone could help. My camera is on. I'm just-- you can't
see me unless IT allows you.
So thank you so much for bringing those points forward. Something that I'd proposed to our General
Manager, as well as OSS Chair Harwick months ago, and I believe I spoke with Director-- I think I spoke
with you, and I spoke with Director Chandler as well-- is just the idea that for a lot of programs like this,
where you qualify for a service on a needs base, we'll use more than one criteria.
So right now, the criteria we use just to qualify for LiVE would be, is 250% of FPL. And so one thing that
I've been floating around the Board the last couple of months is also expanding that to if you receive another
service on the basis of disability. And unfortunately, that was not heard in committee and staff did not get
us those numbers in time for us to consider.
So I was wondering, if I understand your motion, if the LiVE is just to be 0, and the $4.50 is to be $4.50 to
help close that gap for the folks who are on the poverty line but just above the 250%, because they're
getting an additional service from the government, say, housing or wraparound employment services or the
like, or they just make minimum wage in Denver, could we say $4 for the main fare and 0 for the LiVE? And
that doesn't quite cover all of the gap, but that would, to your point, mitigate some of the damage. And I
won't-- that's why I'm asking purely if you'd consider it as a friendly amendment. You brought it forth.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. I'd rather not modify that portion of the amendment. I just want to focus on the
LiVE fare portion of it and not the regular fare. I have very real, very specific concerns about how we treat
the very poor in this country, in this state, in this city. We step over them a lot. We ignore them. We don't
think about them. And we don't really comprehend what it feels like. I've had friends who were just out of
poverty, and if we're not willing to reckon with what that actually is like and how it's very, very different than
making $60,000 or $70,000 a year, or even $50,000, I think we're making a really grave and meaningful
mistake.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Can I-- Oh, sorry.

JULIEN BOUQUET: And I'll come back to you, Director Ruscha. Director Buzek.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much. So I will continue to be a no vote on this, but I certainly hope that
Director Nicholson recognizes the hypocrisy of his amendment. He just chastised, moments ago, Director
Guissinger for being irresponsible by making an amendment on the fly, without any financial data or backup.
And you've just done the same thing. That's all I have.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Guzman. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just think that any changes to the LiVE program should be a whole different issue
and not part of this discussion tonight.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Any further comments or discussions? Call the question regarding the
amendment. OK. Well, I think we're just going to-- let's not call the question. Let's just-- we're going to vote
on the amendment.
Nicholson as the mover. Paglieri is a second Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.

MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director. O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Regretfully no.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a yes. But it fails, 3 to 12. OK. There's three yes votes. [INAUDIBLE]. Me, Paglieri,
and-JACK KROLL: Director Paglieri seconded the motion but then did not support.
JULIEN BOUQUET: But did not-- Excuse me. It was 2 to 13. Pardon me. My bad.
OK, back to the main motion. Any further discussion? Call the question. The vote to call the question.
Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director-- this is the call to question.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JACK KROLL: You're muted.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're muted.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. And I'm disappointed that I fell for your trick.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm also a yes. That'll pass 14 to 1 to call the question.
We're going to be voting on, as amended, the Access-on-Demand program modifications. That is what
we're about ready to vote on, as amended as of tonight. And again, the main amendment was from Director
Guissinger and Director Catlin lowering to $4.50, lowering LiVE program to $2.25
Director Benker.

KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just to clarify, we're voting on the main motion, as amended, sir?
JULIEN BOUQUET: That is correct, Director.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, then I dissent. No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I'm a yes. It'll pass 10 to 5. OK.
OK. We are at our-- We have gone past our mark [INAUDIBLE] it. I'll have order. Thank you.
So moving on. We are at our, past our four-hour mark as it is. We would have to take a vote to extend. I'd
recommend we'd be done at 11:00.
JACK KROLL: So I would take a motion-- so you'll ask for a motion to adjourn the meeting at 11:00?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mm-hm.
JACK KROLL: Is there-- [INAUDIBLE] a second?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I second, or do I make that a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll make the motion, you second.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I second that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
JACK KROLL: And then is there anyone opposed to that? Sorry.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: To extend-JULIEN BOUQUET: To extend to 11:00 PM. We have a bunch we have to get through, so-- OK. We'll take- OK, we'll give it a minute. Say again. Sorry.
Let's get folks cleared out and then we'll get it all organized.
JACK KROLL: Directors. Directors. I think we-- Can we get some clarity on the end time before we break?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, Directors, we do have to vote on.
JACK KROLL: I think I would just ask if anyone was-JULIEN BOUQUET: Are there any no votes?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, I'm a no vote.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We're voting on to extend the meeting. OK. We'll take a roll call to extend the meeting.
Director Benker. 11:00 PM. No later than 11. Benker. Buzek.

JACK KROLL: He's away. Director Catlin.
JOYANN RUSCHA: We can't hear.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I guess. Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: If we can be efficient, yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, there's nothing.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. We are going to extend to 11:00. That passes 13 to 2. Do you want to take a 10minute break? OK, we'll be back at 9:56.

OK. We are moving on to our next action item. Pardon me. And that is going to be the Access-on-Demand
contract extensions. And this is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or
her designee, to enter into a six-month contract extension amendments with existing providers for the AOD
program effective January 1, 2026 through June 30, 2026, raising the not-to-exceed, NTE, amount from
$37.8 million to $47.2 million. Do we have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We got Nicholson as the mover. Do we have a second?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second.
TROY WHITMORE: Got Chandler or Ruscha or Whitmore, your pick.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I got Nicholson as the mover and then Chandler is the second. Is there any discussion
on this item? Yes. I see Director Ruscha's hand up first, and then Director Nicholson. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you IT for turning my camera back on.
So I just wanted to make, I guess, a comment and then I have a question. Again, a point of confusion.
Years ago, when we launched AOD, and in all of the discussions since, when contract renewals came up,
staff repeatedly-- and this is just part of public record. It's in the packets. Staff repeatedly said they would
go out and seek contracts with other types of providers that were not traditional TNCs, transportation
network companies, particularly NEMTs, which are non-emergency medical transportation providers.
Simply put, there are contractors in the community, in this state that could be providing AOD service. And
I'm just wondering if anyone in staff ever followed through? That was part of our original AOD plan. Did we
do an RFQ, an RFP, or an RFI? And if so, what happened? And if not, why not? Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Director Ruscha, thank you for the question.
Recognizing that we have been discussing Access-on-Demand for the past 18 months, the whole intent
was for us to do just that, go out with a request for information so we could ascertain what the market looked
like relative to having service providers. Keeping in mind that the previous discussion item, when I put
forward comments about understanding our scope of work and putting forward options, that's exactly what
we anticipate doing. We could not do that previously because we were waiting on direction from this body
relative to the program modification so we have a better understanding the type of information that we were
seeking.
Thank you very much, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So just so I understand, the motion before us is only to extend the contracts to the
providers who, as we've noted several times tonight, do not provide ADA accessible service. That's what is

before. It's not any broader than that. It's not what we would refer to as a scummery. Is that what we're
voting on?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director-- or excuse me, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Once again, for everyone's edification, the intent
behind these contract modifications is to extend the current contracts which we have for Access-onDemand with the four service providers, i.e. Uber, Lyft, Metro Taxi, and Z-Trip. We are not modifying any
aspects of the contract aside from seeking authorization from this body, in which we would need additional
monies to cover the extended period of time, which would be six months, enabling us to put together a
scope of work so we could basically have an active solicitation trying to ascertain whether or not there's fair
and open competition, adequate service providers to continue on with the program as this Board just voted
upon. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha, does that satisfy your questions?
JOYANN RUSCHA: It does. I just have a final comment before we vote, if that's OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sounds good. I'll come back to you. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. GM/CEO Johnson, so I'm a little confused, because on the bottom of the page,
under background, it says, program modifications approved by the Board will be incorporated into these
amendments if this recommended action is adopted. Does that mean that the fare changes which we just
put into place will go into effect with these amendments, basically January 1 of next year?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, they would, for January 1. We would be seeking to do the modifications. But as
we go forward, we're trying to put forward in the meantime a scope of work whereby we could leverage a
solicitation that would give us greater bandwidth and the ability to incorporate various options so we can
leverage innovative aspects of a service delivery model for Access-on-Demand.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. I'd like to make a motion to continue the existing current zero fare for individuals
who are on the LiVE program, or zero fare for individuals who are on the LiVE program for the term of these
contracts.
And here's the reason why. Very simply, if you are making $200 a month in disposable income, if you have
very little money to live on, being told with three months notice that you are going to have half of your
disposable income being used to pay for AOD is excessive. It's not something you can effectively plan for.
And that's basically what we're saying to the people in the Atlantis Community. We're going to take you
from spending, if you're using 60 rides, $0 to $120 a month with three months notice. Now, we give you

more than that, then sure, maybe people can adapt, figure it out, find a friend to drive them around. But I
just, I don't know how I can go to these people in my district, look them in the eye, and say, yeah, sorry,
you're stranded. We can't help you. You are not going to be able to afford to get around, because we only
gave you three months notice before we ate up half of your disposable income.
If you don't believe me, that that's the reality, sit down with Brian Grewe. Sit down with the people at Atlantis
and ask them what they will go through when this program goes into effect. And then tell me that you think
it's reasonable to give them three months notice for that to happen.
I think it's a small change. I do not think it is a meaningful amount of money. I can be corrected by staff.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, point of order, sir. I'm sorry, but this is not germane to the motion on the
table. And thus, it is out of order. And I am sorry, Secretary Nicholson. I hear you. And also, we do have
rules.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I would ask the parliamentarian if that's correct. I think it is germane, since it's about
the contract.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, it's certainly germane. But you've introduced a motion. There hasn't been a second
yet. So let's make sure we get a second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Is there a second to Secretary Nicholson's motion? OK. That motion will fail. All right.
Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I'm going to be a no vote tonight. And not just because I'm frustrated about
earlier, but just for two reasons. Staff had five years to come back to the Board and ask us for permission
to negotiate with a myriad of other vendors in the community who could provide wheelchair accessible
service, and then failed to do so. So I'm not comfortable voting to extend this tonight for the other reason,
which is that if you look at the contracts we're extending-- they're subject to CORA, happy to give you my
copies-- they very explicitly state that the vendors are not expected to comply with the ADA, and RTD will
figure it out. And I don't think that's within our values.
So I'm a no vote tonight for those reasons. And I just wanted to offer clarity, because typically these types
of procurements go through without any other comment. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any other discussion on the motion, or the action item,
excuse me? It was indicated there will be a no vote, so we'll take a roll call vote. Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yup.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yep.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe. Absent. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely not.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That will pass. I am also a yes. So that will pass 13 yes, 1 no, 1 absent. OK.
Apologies. We're going to move on to our next discussion, or we're going to move on to discussion items.
And this is going to be the Finishing FasTracks Report. I'd like to ask our General Manager and CEO, Ms.
Debra A. Johnson, to introduce this item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. This evening we're joined by Bill Sirois who is
our Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development. And he is here to present the Finishing FasTracks
Report. As you're aware, this report is being required by virtue of statute, in reference to discerning what
might it take for us to complete the promise relative to the FasTracks program that was approved by voters
in 2004.

More to the point, we have leveraged a public participation process, disseminated information. And relative
to what's being presented here tonight is a draft, we will be seeking comments from members of the Board
to help further inform the report. And that process will be open until November 14 to have public comment
received, and then modifications will be made whereby we can submit the report to the legislature as
deemed by December 1, but it's our intent to submit that prior to the Thanksgiving holiday, recognizing the
dates and the calendar.
So with that, Mr. Sirois, I will yield the floor to you, sir. Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. I will try to go through this presentation quickly, given the late
hour. And I know there's other stuff on the agenda.
So just real quick. Some of the report highlights, just at a very high level. We've seen some substantial
increases in costs with the program, with the costs that we just updated as part of this report. We have
some challenges on the fiscal capacity, both on the debt side and just our ability to pay for the capital
improvements associated with the program in a reasonable time frame. And the current external revenue
sources really do not fill the gap. So the punchline is, we do need new funding and partnerships in terms of
moving forward with this program, and especially if we are to consider completed by the 2034 deadline,
which was identified in the legislation.
So I'll quickly will be going through various background costs, fiscal analysis, as well as key takeaways as
part of this presentation. So with the background, I think we all know that FasTracks was passed in 2004.
We've completed a significant portion, but there is the four corridors that you see on the screen that do
remain.
This comes from the legislative requirement, which GM/CEO Johnson just referred to, but specifically SB
24-230 outlined the requirement for this report in 2024 and asked RTD to prioritize Northwest Rail and
North Metro. It asked also for us to show how the program could be completed by 2034. And then it was
subsequently revised with the SB-161 to add additional requirements to look at additional fiscal
requirements in terms of the use of COPs, and then also to require us to do a public outreach process as
part of the report.
So in terms of how we developed the report, we use the 2019 report, that was Unfinished Corridors Report
was done for the Board as our basis. We updated those costs that were included in that report and then
including revenue projections based on our current fiscal situation, and then also, were able to communicate
and coordinate with local jurisdiction staff to see what new infrastructure and development projects have
happened in those corridors which may impact potential implementation.
The one thing that we did not do, though, is we did not update any of the design that was already, has kind
of been at that 15% to 30% level. So again, that is something that we would have to move forward with as
we move these projects forward.
Since 2004, obviously we've seen some key challenges to the program. Probably one of the biggest ones
is the Great Recession in 2008, which we saw a significant increase in costs, more than expected and was
projected as part of the program. And we also saw a significant decrease in the sales and use tax growth
rate, which we had projected also in 2004.
And one thing to note just on these is that we do have references to page numbers. And so if there's more
specific details you want those are referenced in those pages in the report.

So looking at the costs, in terms of the updating of the costs for the four corridors, for the three, other than
the Northwest Rail peak service, the North Metro, Southwest, and Central corridors. those corridors
increase pretty significantly from the 2015 costs that we last had in terms of doing a detailed cost estimate.
So those increase anywhere from 70% to 90% during that 10-year time frame.
Also, we do have fairly, again, operating costs in the order of about $23 million a year. And then ridership,
again, is people might look at that as being lower. But again, that does reflect our current modeling for how
our future ridership will go on light rail and commuter rail, based on real data and our approved FTA
modeling criteria.
So in looking at the fiscal capacity, again, we have a limited ability to use reserve funds. Those have been
accounted for in terms of the five-year fiscal plan, in terms of drawing those down to pay for things like debt
and then other requirements in terms of capital and operating costs. We do have a very limited ability to
use debt under TABOR. We have a little under $3 million left in capacity.
With regards to COPs, again, there's a very limited opportunity to use COPs, as a funding mechanism,
given our current financial situation. And we have a great deal of asset renewal needs that we have that
we have to account for in our future fiscal capacity in terms of looking at this, building out these corridors in
the next 10 years.
If we're looking at other sources beyond the traditional ones, the debt capacity, we do have the FISA, which
in the projected five-year fiscal plan, it is about $145 million. Then we have a series of other state
opportunities. The SB-260, which was actually should be 21-260, not 23. There's approximately $30 million
there left in that pot of money. That is basically doled out by the Denver Regional Council of Governments,
and that will be available in the 2030 to 2032 time frame.
On the SB-230 side, there's approximately $90 million a year projected beginning next year. The focus that
we have with the building out of the FasTracks program is on the rail side, which 20% of that $90 million is
allocated to rail statewide. The other 80%, 70% of which is allocated to local operating funds statewide.
And then there's a 10% allocation to a competitive grant program that hasn't been determined yet in terms
of the criteria for that program.
And then SB-184, that has an initial estimate of $58 million that is going to grow over time. And then there
is no mechanism for distribution of those funds currently, and we're monitoring that. So those are kind of
on the state side.
On the federal side, we have a series of tradition programs that we have monitored. And we look at the
Capital Investment Grant program is probably the main program that FTA has in terms of funding capital
improvement projects. RTD has taken advantage of this program in the past.
The CRISI program. That is a program related to railroad safety improvements. It requires a partnership
with a railroad, an operating railroad. And so in this case, there was a CRISI grant that was obtained by the
state with the BNSF for about $66 million that goes all the way between Denver and Fort Collins earlier last
year.
And then lastly, the BUILD program, which is a program that has been in place for a little over a decade
and has changed the names quite a few times. But that is a program that has about an average doling out
of about $15 million for most projects. I think there's a maximum of $25 or $30 million.

So again, those are some opportunities on the federal side. The thing to note about this is that under the
reauthorization, the criteria for these things could change. And we have been monitoring that. But there is
a little bit level of uncertainty with regards to these programs.
So the punchline here is that we have a fairly significant gap in terms of our ability to fund the remaining
corridors. With the FISA balance and assuming an allocation of those state funds that I went over, we have
about a $1.2 billion gap. So really, to complete the corridors, we do need revenue sources beyond what we
currently know. And we also need additional resources and sustainable funding sources for our operating
and our maintenance and our asset renewal costs. Those are something that we have not accounted for in
our current analysis.
So key takeaways that we can take from the report. Again, we've completed a significant portion of
FasTracks. There are insufficient funds to complete the program. And even with additional funding, we do
have a gap. But the thing with this is this is a point in time and that there will be additional design for all
projects needed, and cost estimates will need to be updated with design.
But I think the main point here is, again, we need partnerships to move these projects forward. It is going
to take more than RTD to get them going, because there is additional funding that's required, if we are to
complete these in the near term. So I think those are some of the things.
So the next steps in this process, just to end up, like I said, like the General Manager and CEO Johnson
said, the report is online and available for public review through the middle of November. We do have some
meetings scheduled. We have a subregional service council meeting scheduled for this week. We also
have a meeting with the Douglas County Transportation Forum this week. We do have Transportation
Legislative Review committee later on in October.
And then we do expect to come back to the Board and have a forum focused on this report at the next
Board meeting in October. And like our General Manager said, we do expect to have the report kind of
buttoned up before Thanksgiving to submit to the legislature.
So with that, I will end the presentation and open it up for any questions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Pardon me. Thank you very much, Mr. Sirois. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thanks, Mr. Sirois, for your presentation.
The 2019 corridors report was specific to the corridors, and I remember back then objecting to the fact that
the whole FasTracks plan in its entirety was not included. So I thank you for including that. And the thing
that I had emphasized was the Fast Connects increased bus service that's on packet page 67. And then
the-- excuse me a second. I'm losing my-- And then some of the table with scenario assumptions I want to
come back to.
But the thing that I wanted to call attention to was this Fast Connects map. And this shows the extensive
proposed bus service in the FasTracks plan. And I know that-- this is my last opportunity to comment on
this. This is packet page 132. And you can see quite a bit of coverage from that.
And none of this has really materialized. In fact, a lot of it has gone away, particularly in areas such as
mine. And I would like to understand what the implications of those reductions have been to the FasTracks
plan, because that was missing. Everybody focuses on the corridors, but it was much more than that back
in 2004. So I would ask that consideration be given to that particular component.

And I just really appreciated that it was made reference to, but with that-- back to the scenarios, with regard
to that Fast Connects component, there's only one of the scenarios that really has any funding at all. And
it says funds to base, for the base system funding for FasTracks projects. So I just-- it's absent in terms of
what it would cost to reinstitute some of those things.
But I do applaud you for accelerating this on the time that the legislature requested. I know it's a lot of work,
but I really appreciate that you gave consideration to that other component that was missing last time.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And thanks, Mr. Sirois, for the report. And thanks for having your face on the
television news the last couple of days. I don't know what the talking heads-- I don't know if they're just
obtuse, or if they're not, then they're deliberately, they're just not bright. But they make it sound like we
simply don't want to finish this. They said, RTD is reporting $1.6 million to finish FasTracks. Yeah. And?
What's your point?
Director Benker, I'm sure when you were on the Board, YOU guys weren't just sitting around on a stack of
cash and not spending it because you didn't feel like it. We were trying to build transit and rail and everything
all at once. And you did, to a great degree. 75% of it is complete.
So, yeah, it's unfortunate that you do your best, you have no money to finish, and somehow that's your
fault. I don't get it.
Anyway, thanks for the report. Thanks for doing this. The Eagle P3 stuff came about because, well, it was
a P3. My guess is we're not getting any unsolicited proposals on this because our ridership numbers are
pretty dismal on a lot of these. The feasibility study for the Northwest Rail kind of says, not feasible because
of those numbers. And until you figure out a way to do that-- I know when they're talking about, Front Range
Passenger Rail and all that partnership, they somehow think that magically, from Longmont to Fort Collins,
you're going to triple your ridership numbers. I don't know how that works, but maybe it does. Yeah, could
be.
So I think we need to just keep plugging away the best we can and looking for opportunities pick away at
this stuff. My guess is a lot of it's going to take more capital than we have or will have in the very near future.
But anyway, thanks for the report and keep it up.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. This is one of my favorite topics, so I'll try not to keep it
too long here.
But first of all, thank you for the report. And I'm assuming you saved us the $100,000, because not too long
ago, we appropriated $100,000 to contract this out. So did we save that money because we did it internally?
BILL SIROIS: Chair, if I may?
No, we did contract out a consultant to help us out with the cost estimates, which were done in a fair amount
of detail.
KAREN BENKER: OK. I was hoping we saved some money. OK, so a couple of things here.

First of all, let's talk about ridership numbers. So since the comment was just made that ridership numbers
look really bad, let me explain why. First of all, even DRCOG is going to be redoing their numbers this fall,
because they did admit they're rather low. But it's mostly because of the-- there are only three round trips
planned for Northwest Rail. And you can only put about perhaps maybe three rail cars on each trip. And so
you can do the math. So if you do the math, you can't do much more than 1,100 riders because you don't
have enough frequency. And so I think if frequency were expanded, you would definitely see a lot more
riders.
And I should also add, when I was meeting with the city of Broomfield not too long ago, they asked me if I
believed the DRCOG ridership models. And I said, no, I know some of the politics behind it and why US 36
got all the riders and Northwest Rail didn't. And they said, good, because when we looked at the model,
they said Broomfield only had six riders a day using the rail line. And they said, that's not true. So the
numbers need to be annotated.
So let's talk then about a couple of things. $70 million is the annual amount set aside or determined by
legislative counsel staff for the rental fee, not $58 million. Now, $58 million is probably going to be the first
year, but after that, the numbers start to go up. So it'd be nice to have that reflected in the report.
Let's see. Another question is, you probably know I've been working in some of these numbers since
January and I've got so many spreadsheets. And if anybody wants to see some of my spreadsheets, just
let me know. Because actually, I did bring a new one to the meeting today. But what I would like to be able
to see is if you were to take these revenue streams and bond it, or do COPs, I'm pretty sure CDOT and the
state would be open to that. And it would be nice if we could actually talk about other revenue scenarios.
That might be something you want to think about.
Senate Bill 161. The other thing that it says is that Northwest Rail is supposed to be operating by January
1, 2029. And they then went ahead and changed the wording from shall be operating by January 1, 2029.
In Senate Bill 161, they changed shall to must. And so it would be nice to at least say something about that
in the report, whether or it's going to happen or not. There are some implications if we don't have it open
by then. So I think it would be nice to actually put that in the report.
The other thing that I would like to find out would be how we're going about community input. There's no
doubt there's going to be some of us out there that are going to hopefully not provide three hours of
community input for two meetings. Maybe we'll try to keep it more succinct. But there are a lot of mayors,
state legislators, citizens, RTD riders that are very interested in making sure that this happens. So I want
to make sure that their voice is heard and that they're going to have enough time to come in and give us
their thoughts on how important this rail line is, and that we finish FasTracks.
And I think you also know that the state legislature, when they passed 184, 230, 161, the legislature was
very interested in what we were doing, and they kept mandating these things over and over. And one of the
biggest things that they wanted us to do in this report was to demonstrate how the District will fulfill the
District's commitment in the transportation expansion plan adopted by the Board and approved by the voters
in 2004.
My biggest issue, I think with this particular report, as I read through it a couple of times, is that I was looking
for a variety of solutions, ideas, creativity. How can we make this happen? There are so many different
revenue sources out there that we should be knocking on their door. The federal government, the state
government, even some local governments. Like I said, one scenario that I've been working on now for a
couple of months is taking these new revenue streams that we're getting and bonding it.

Now, do we need some additional legislation from the state? Probably. I also have been told there's a good
chance that they're going to be running a cleanup bill next year. So now would be a good time to actually
reach out to some of those state legislators that are very, very interested in making sure that at least these
two rail lines get done, because I also think you probably know that in Senate Bill 230, that 20% set aside
has been talked about as being the monies to finish the N Line. And there was a lot of politicking going on,
but I believe it was pretty darn clear that they were hoping, they were planning, that they were going to give
RTD that revenue source so that, again, we could bond it and finish those two stations in Adams County.
So the other two, I'm just-JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer, if I could, we got about 30 minutes left of this meeting. And so if I could
keep it just reduced. Thank you.
KAREN BENKER: Just real quick then. So there are other two pieces that I would love to get more
information from. And that would be Highlands Ranch and Five Points. I would hope that we'd be able to
reach out to the community and get their thoughts and ideas on what they see, what they envision.
So with that, thank you very much.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director O'Keefe. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So just a few comments.
First, this is one instance where I know I will miss Director Catlin going forward, because there is someone
else who has worked for an engineering construction industry and understands the concept of design and
construction. We have a lot of people at RTD do, but on the Board the actual engineering construction
union is pretty small.
So a few things about this report, just commentary. And then I actually have a request, too. So it's really
important for everyone to understand this is not what it would cost at all. It's not. This is a point in time
reconciliation of previous numbers carried forward to-- I don't know what day they picked. They picked a
day and time.
And so there are a load of assumptions that are in that that have been carried forward since FasTracks
was passed, and I would say probably was pitched with too much content and not enough money, to put it
lightly. And so that hasn't changed, right. And that's, to Director Buck's point, that's, I mean, you want to
pick on something, that's what you pick on. It's not that we're sitting on a pile of cash that we don't want to
finish this. It's that there wasn't enough money to finish it in the first place.
And that's just fact. I mean, it's just inflation caught us, a whole bunch of other things. So there's a few
things to keep in mind about this. If we can work this into the text, I think would be really useful because
this will be used and misused by a bunch of people. There is zero design on any of the uncompleted stations
or routes. Is that correct? Do we have any design completed?
BILL SIROIS: Well, the design that's completed is anywhere from 15% to 30%.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: OK. At 30%, I would not firm fixed price it. I think that's safe. The design is immature
at that point. That is a conceptual design at best. Station goes here. It hooks up to this line. It doesn't say
how much steel you need, how much concrete you need, how much fill you need, how much all that. That
gets filled in in the detail of design down the road.

There's also, I think-- and this is something that I'd ask that we reconcile-- there are some things in the
original cost that can't be inflated, like payments to freight rail. That was just a price that has been carried
forward largely untouched. And so to the extent it was accurate before, you don't inflate it. It's whatever the
railroad charges you when you build the railroad, when we build on top of their property. So we won't know
that price.
And that is something I think we really need to asterisk in there is there are a lot of non-direct costs to
construction that are not captured in the materials escalation that the consultant did. That's just fact. I mean,
they couldn't do it, because they didn't go out and ask Burlington Northern, what would it take to extend the
Southwest corridor.
I do think that we have both a broken promise to previous Directors, or previous voters. I know you're going
to cut me off in a second, but-- Oh, I can keep going? All right, I got-JULIEN BOUQUET: [INAUDIBLE]
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yeah, yeah. But the voters approved that a quarter century ago. And a lot of things
have changed. And I will tell you, talking to constituents in Highlands Ranch, and elected officials down
there, I don't think that they are enthusiastic about $100 million a mile or more extension of Southwest
corridor.
So I think that's the other thing that's kind of in this report. It is wonderful that we've carried this forward and
the consultants have done a good job. You have an impossible task. But that is missing in this is, the world
has changed. We've added a million people to the Denver Metro area since FasTracks has passed, a
million people that didn't vote on this that are paying taxes. So I think the fact that this relies on taxpayer
promises is true. And I take that very seriously, but it's also not entirely accurate.
So I would like to see us asterisk the things in the cost tables that are not captured below, because there's
an implication that the costs capture that, that's what it would cost to build it. And that's just not the case.
And I know you know that. But reading the report, I could see how people might misinterpret.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. I have two questions relating to the N Line. I will say, this was a lot of
work and I agree with Director-- I'm thinking Director Patrick in my head-- Director O'Keefe, that these are
very rough numbers in the sense that it's just really hard to know what this will actually look like unless you
dig in and spend millions and millions and millions of dollars.
When it comes to the N line, help me out with one thing. The N Line was originally supposed to be running
at 20-minute frequencies, is my understanding. And it's not right now. It's running at 30-minute frequencies.
Does this cost estimate include not just completing the line but getting it to 20-minute frequencies? That's
my first question. And then I have a second question on top of that.
BILL SIROIS: Chair. If I may. No, it does not include the cost to go to 20-minute frequencies. There would
be significant infrastructure costs associated with improvements to the [INAUDIBLE] area around
[INAUDIBLE] to make that happen.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Got it. And so that my second question on that-- and this is just, again, I was not on
the Board at that point. I had just moved to Denver. But the thing came out in 2020. That's when we opened,

launch it. Why did the agency, the Board, whoever did it, take delivery of that in 2020 if it was only running
at 30 minutes and we'd paid for 20? Like, why is the line the way that it is?
I don't understand why we accepted. And I know GM/CEO Johnson wasn't here at the time, at the point.
You got hired about a month later. But why was that allowed to happen, that we got to that point?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Secretary Nicholson. Thank you, Chair. It is my
understanding, recognizing that while I was hired, I hadn't started my position as of yet as the General
Manager and Chief Executive Officer. But from my understanding, upon coming to the agency and engaging
with a myriad of elected officials and those on the Board, there was a desire to get the project open, and
recognizing that it was decided as well, from a cost benefit analysis vantage point, that it would be a lot
more prudent for RTD to operate the line directly.
And more to the point, as you talk about 30-minute headways, 20-minute headways, and things of the like,
you have to keep in mind that a vast majority of the railroad is single track. And so as you talk about 20minute headways, to the point Mr. Sirois was raising, that would be difficult relative to the current
infrastructure that we have, what we refer to as the throat of Denver Union Station, getting trains in and out
of Denver Union Station would be difficult. Hence, that is why we are here. We're here now relative to the
30-minute headways.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Got it. One last question. The thing mentions a limited COP capacity in terms of being
able to borrow to fund the cost of building all of this. How limited is that? I guess that would be [INAUDIBLE],
whoever, speak to how limited is our COP capacity?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point of clarification. I think basically what we were talking about, the limitations, we
were talking about what we have under TABOR relative to bonding as well, which is at $2.7 million. And
then basically to the point about the COPs relative to where we sit, I will defer to CFO Mackey.
BILL SIROIS: I was going to do the same.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer. Yes, so we do have the $2.7 million limit for issuing
COPs per TABOR. But other than that, we do have additional capacity for other projects not related to this.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So-JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I guess I'm confused. Because I know we're going to be talking about, in the fiveyear financial forecast, $539 million in COPs. So I'm wondering, like, is there another $539 million on top
of that? What is our borrowing capacity in COPs? Because it's obviously more than $2.7 million and it's
probably not $5 billion. So I was hoping maybe you can help me understand, where is that at.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. I'm slightly confused by the question that he posed, because he-- I'm sorry, I
meant to say, Secretary Nicholson, I apologize. So in relation to, you mentioned $500 million, are you

talking about the five-year financial forecast in which there's been quite a few questions relative to $539
million, as we look at outlying years for forecast in reference to asset needs?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So, yeah. I mean, my fundamental question is, what is the borrowing capacity of the
agency using COPs? You said we have limited borrowing capacity using COPs. That presumes to me that
there's been some kind of quantification of what our borrowing capacity would be using COPs.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you for the clarification. I will yield to CFO Mackey. But I think what's important
to note when we're talking about that 539 in the five-year financial forecast, we're talking about fleet accruals
versus large investments in the billions of dollars to bring forward major infrastructure projects. So that's
something that's very different on the face of it as we move forward.
But with that, I'll yield the floor to the CFO.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, thank you. Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer.
So correct, the $539 million for COPs issuance related to the five-year financial forecast is separate. It's a
different issue than the FasTracks Report, which is related to TABOR and bonding capacity of $2.7 million
additional remaining. So the 539 we definitely have additional capacity for buses.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary. Briefly.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I guess I just can't get my head around it. Are we not allowed to-- are we allowed to
borrow for buses but we're not allowed to borrow for finishing the N Line, is basically what you're saying?
KELLY MACKEY: Correct. My understanding, correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I'll be quick here. The subregional service council meeting's
tomorrow. And I'd be interested to tune in, if you could get a link to our Board Office and tell me the time.
Or, no, maybe it's Thursday.
BILL SIROIS: It is Thursday. And we can provide that link to Board members.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you know the time?
BILL SIROIS: I believe-- I'm looking to my staff person over there to-- I think it's at 1:00. I will be able to get
it to if you-LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine. Just, yeah, if you can send it to the Board Office, that'd be great.
And then with respect to using our peak period study, I think Director Buzek said it well, that when that
came to us, it was pretty clear that $654 million, or whatever the number is, it wasn't really feasible. And I
think here-- and this may be more a question for Ms. Johnson, because she's so involved with it. But at this
point, everybody's kind of moved on. If it's going to happen, it's going to happen with Joint Service.
And I know you're in a bit of a bind because we don't have real numbers yet. But we do have-- there are
things we know and things that Lisa Kaufman and others have brought to us. And it seems like we're doing- it's kind of old news if we ignore that. And maybe you could tell us, Ms. Johnson, when what the schedule

is. Do we expect to know more before December? Or is there a way to look at that and recognize that if it's
going to happen, that's the way it's going to happen? Because it seems like it's kind of a big omission to
me.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Guissinger, for your
question.
So before I address it directly, there's a couple caveats. Keeping in mind that the Northwest Rail, as we
know it to be, would come to fruition only by virtue of us working with BNSF. That is the owner of the rightof-way. And keeping in mind that I, and others that you just named, have come before this body, explaining
that BNSF would prefer to work with one entity representing the different public entities within the state of
Colorado. And to the fact that the Northwest Rail, as described in legislation, or in the referendum in 2004,
we're talking about 55 trains a day. As we know, that could never come to fruition relative to where we sit
currently.
So with that as a backdrop moving forward, just earlier today, I was engaged in a session with
representatives from the state of Colorado, Front Range Passenger Rail, as well as with the Burlington
North Santa Fe Railroad as we talk about a use agreement. And so at the risk of not divulging information
that is privy to us working in tandem with acquiring a use agreement, we are endeavoring to do the best
that we can.
There are some sticking points, and December would be optimistic relative to where we sit, just by virtue
of tomorrow being October 1. And quite naturally, we have to understand what that use agreement would
entail, what are maintenance costs, operating costs. But more importantly, even before you get to O&M,
there's projects that need to be done to accommodate passenger rail service on an existing freight line
that's moving cargo.
And while there is the desire, and it was in statute, to have trains operating by 2029, I think on the face of
it, as we talk about what it is that we do know, and having been in this business for three decades, we could
try. But in some instances, we'll be cutting off our noses to spite our faces by virtue of saying we want
something and value engineering something down that wouldn't be practical in reference to service delivery.
So that was a long winded answer, but I felt that I needed to provide that information.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's good. And, I totally get all of those things, that there's a lot we don't know and
that 2029 and all of that. But it seems to me like that's what's happening. And we shouldn't be ignoring it in
this, that we should be talking about Joint Service. Because the $650 million, I think the Board kind of
looked at and said, yeah, that's not going to happen.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I can just say something. So keeping in mind that staff started working on
this a couple months ago, we just formed the Joint Service Executive Oversight Committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I understand the timing is-DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. And so it is our intent to incorporate information, because we want to ensure
that we're being prudent and responsible relative to what we're actually putting in a document that's forward
facing, considering where we are with the process with our colleagues across the state. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director. Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Really quick. So we'll use the L Line as an example. If the community were to opt for a
different type of technology that's not light rail finishing that, is that allowed? Or do we have to do light rail
in this instance? Again, but like, Highlands Ranch is a good example. If they want something different, what
does that look like and is that doable?
BILL SIROIS: If I may, Chair. Yes, we can look at different [INAUDIBLE] and we actually did that with,
originally, the Gold Line was originally light rail, and that was changed to commuter rail. So there is an
ability to change the technology.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. I'll try to keep this quick, and I might follow up my comment with some
written comment to the Board so I can keep it short.
Thank you for this. Thank you, Director Catlin, for bringing up the sheet of paper that you showed us that
had the network. I think that's really important. I think that the people who designed FasTracks were a little
bit wiser than we are today, because I think they knew that in order for FasTracks to be successful, it had
to be a network. You can't have rail without having amazing bus connected to it. You can't have amazing
bus without backbone as well.
And so in short, I feel like this document shows that the agency has missed the point and the intent of the
legislator. I believe the legislator wanted us to find-- they're forcing us to finish this project because they
want us to make a transit system that's better, and they want us to finish out building more of the network
that FasTracks wanted. And I'm going to go out on a limb and just assume that the people who have made
us do this really want us to be successful, and they really want us to see a system where it's not just the
bare minimum, it's really a successful network.
And I think a lot of-- I think that maybe people miss on this, especially in politics, the directive that the people
gave us with the FasTracks vote. I don't think that people were really cared too much about exactly where
the train ran. I think that what they were expecting was a world-class transit system that had frequency that
they could build their lives around, that would enable them to have the freedom of movement and the
freedom of choice to choose how they move around our city and put Denver on the best leg forward as
Denver goes into becoming a world-class city, which we are today. And they knew there would be a million
more people.
And so I think that to summarize this, because it's late, I am excited about this, and I think that we should
take this, and I think we should figure out how can we make FasTracks better, knowing what we do as
transit professionals, to make this a more successful project in the future. And one thing I'd like to consider
is how much will this cost in 22 years. Because I believe FasTracks is about 22 years ago. Because 22
years from now, it'll be exponentially more expensive and even more impossible to do it. So we should
probably do it today.
And then, yeah, I think that I'm just excited. Thank you for producing a number, at least, even if it's not the
actual cost. But yeah. And then I'll follow up with more [INAUDIBLE]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Nicholson, briefly.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. This is a question for GC Snyder. As I understand it, we are currently
using base system money to pay for some of the cost of FasTracks. We do not have enough money from
the FasTracks revenue to pay for all of the cost of FasTracks. Are we legally required to do any of this, or
could we say tomorrow, we're done, we're just not doing any of this, and use the money that we have to
pay for the system we've currently built?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: I think I'd like to preserve the privilege, Director Nicholson, and not provide a legal
opinion about that. I do think that the conversation I'm hearing is that the agency is looking to try to meet
the FasTracks promise and be able to have hard numbers to do that. But I'd like to respond on the legal
question separately to preserve the privilege.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. OK, we're going to keep moving. Just a heads up, Directors, there's no
way we're getting done with this in eight minutes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Can I please move that we have items 11, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 17 be submitted in
writing to be appended to the minutes of this meeting? That way, we don't have to go through the verbal
exercise of that, as well as commit agenda item 20 to be committed to the Finance and Planning Committee
agenda on 10/14/25 as a discussion item, pursuant to our normal Board process to limit the length of this
meeting. That way, we have time to get through our unanimous consent and recommended actions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Is there a second?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Any disagreement?
And then item 20. Can you remind us?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Item 20 listed on our agenda to be committed to Finance and Planning, which is the
discussion about window covering prohibition and system advertising policy amendment, as that should
have gone through committee before it came here to have a discussion and then a recommendation before
it came to the Board. I'm not sure why it didn't do that, and it jumps the process. But it would make sense,
at this point in time, in the late hour of this meeting, to commit that to one of our standing committees. I'm
offering Finance and Planning for time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Any no votes on any of those changes? Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I'd offer a friendly amendment to take it to the OSS Committee instead, since this is
more related to customer experience.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: A friendly amendment would be an issue. The only problem is that the Chair of OSS
is no longer in the room, and I would hate to do that without looking at the work plan. I believe that it could
be handled in Finance and Planning.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Vice Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: How about move it to the appropriate committee later on? How about that? OK?
Sounds good. We're not going to debate this right now. So, any no's on this?
OK. So we are now on to our unanimous consent items. There are three items on the unanimous consent
agenda. These are listed under our Section 18 as action A through C. Those items are for the successor
strategic plan-- Oh, excuse me. Sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I did skip the minutes on purpose. We should put those in the record now. We don't
need to wait on that one.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Sounds good. Approval of the Board Minutes for dates of minutes of July 29,
September 8 and September 9, September 10, September 25 of 2025. Move to approve. Second. Any
disagreement?
OK. No, that will pass 15-0. We're going to skip the-- Excuse me. Excuse me. I am so sorry. It passes 130, because Director Harwick and Director Ruscha are gone. Thank you. I'm sorry. Just trying to get us
through as quickly as possible.
Chair's report and then GM report, we're going to-- we can send that via writing.
Unanimous consent, back on track. So the three items listed, are there any-- excuse me. Is there a motion
to move these? Yeah, Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: I would like to remove item A from the unanimous consent agenda.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Any other changes? OK. A mover on it? I'm sorry. Oh, it was [INAUDIBLE]. Sorry.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yeah, we'd need a motion for the remaining ones, and I'll make that motion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Any no votes on any of that? OK.
OK. Moving on now to recommended actions. First recommended action would be the successor strategic
plan. Yes. Do we have a motion? OK, move to approve. Second? Buzek, Larsen, a second. Discussion,
Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes. I'm going to be a no vote on this. There's no doubt we need to have a new strategic
plan. In fact, it's required by state legislation. The issue that I have is we're contracting out again. We say
that we're broke. We have to be careful how we spend our money. And I feel that our staff are the ones that
should be writing the strategic plan.

And it's quite possible for them to do it. I've got the last one that was done. It's only a few pages. And so
rather than go to contract and get somebody from outside the firm to produce this report, I think it should
be done internally.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Any further discussion? Secretary, and then Director Guzman.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yep. So I understand the value of hiring a contractor. I'm going to be a no vote as
well for a related reason. And that is that I think, the more we go out for this kind of thing, the more we lose
control over what it is that we are actually doing, and the harder it is for the Board to have direct influence
over the type of work product that we get.
And so I really want to caution us, this is probably the most important thing, one of the most important things
we're going to do is craft the strategic plan, in terms of setting what this is going to look like going forward.
And it would be so easy for us to basically hand this off to consultants and then have it come back to us
and say, OK, that's good. And then basically let it be written by other people.
And so I really understand where Director Benker is coming from. And I just think we need to be extremely,
not skeptical but keep an incredibly close eye on if this passes the consultants that [INAUDIBLE] to do this.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just for the record, I don't think anybody said we're broke. I think what we have
discussed is that we need to be fiduciaries and responsible for the spending of our money. And sometimes
that looks like going to outside sources to be able to get additional work done that would overburden our
staff who have jobs to do already and may not have the capacity to take on the additional burden. So I will
be a yes vote on this tonight. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Any further discussion? OK, taking the roll. Taking the vote. Director
Benker.
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.

CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That will pass with-- I'm a yes. I got 10 yeses, three no's, two absent.
OK, moving on. OK. I'm trying my best. We're moving on now to the 2026-2030 five-year financial forecast,
for the FIFE. Do you have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. I'd like to move to lay this over to the Finance and Planning meeting on, I think,
it's October 14. Is that-- can I talk about why?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Do we have a second on that?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second. OK, I got Gutschenritter. OK, discussion on moving it to Finance and
Planning.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So I think all of you got the letter that five of us wrote to address some of the
questions that we have. I think staff did a phenomenal job putting this together. I think there's a ton of
information in there. And CFO Mackey has been really helpful in answering a lot of questions.
I'm not a finance guy. I'm not as smart as Director Benker is. Sorry, Treasurer Benker is, when it comes to
reading a budget. This does not come naturally to me. And this is incredibly important, because there are
tons of policy assumptions baked into this five-year financial forecast that we are essentially giving the

green light for. We're not approving any COPs. We're not approving any funds, but we're saying, yeah, this
is the direction we want you to go in.
And I just think that, especially for those of us who are maybe, this is our first time doing a budget, maybe
haven't dealt with it as much, it's worth taking a breather. It's worth asking the additional questions. It's
worth going through all the things. We may get to the same place a month from now at the Board meeting
and approve exactly what's in there. But I will feel much, much better and sleep much, much better at night
if we are able to address it in the F&P meeting, address it at the Budget Committee study session that we
have set up, and then approve it after that.
So that's what I'd ask.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would just like to point out, we've had discussion and a recommended action on this
from the Finance and Planning Committee members. In July, eight were present. In September, nine were
present. Two additional Directors were in each of those meetings. One was Director Ruscha and Chair
Bouquet. At the second one, it was you, Director Nicholson, and Chair Bouquet. The other names on this
list, with the exception of Vice Chair Benker, were not attending those meetings and were not part of that
discussion or that conversation.
So those are open to everybody, and I encourage participation. And the conversations were real and the
homework was done. And earlier, I believe it was you that pointed out we should trust our fellow Directors
to do their work and bring recommendations to this committee.
Now, I understand that you have reservations. I've also read your letter and you got quite the response
from staff regarding each of these items. We can certainly go back and look at it, but this is not an
apportionment and this is not a dedication of funds. This is a planning tool used to inform the budgeting
process, which I do believe has also come up from you and other Directors, to have a study session on
prior to making any decisions and votes.
So while we are working on a time-limited manner to get to the end of the year and land these planes, as
much as I appreciate that you might need a little bit of hand-holding as a new Director, and that's perfectly
OK-- I did too, when I joined this Board-- we can take the time to do this, but we do have time commitments
we need to meet. And that's also a fiduciary responsibility of the members of this Board.
And so I think that if we do this and you lay it over and this vote passes, that's perfectly acceptable. But I
would remember that we need to work expeditiously to complete the responsibilities we have set forth this
year. And this should not be a surprise at this point, because it was on the work plan and it was on the work
plan since February, when the committee approved it and brought it forward. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Treasurer Benker, quickly.
KAREN BENKER: Yes. Thank you. As Vice Chair of Finance, I did vote no on this. There are so many
unanswered questions here. To suddenly go from no bonding, or COPs, to $536 million worth over the next
couple of years with a very small, half-page description of what those projects are, with no discussion on
financing, with no discussion on reserves. I have issues with the super conservative revenue forecast that's
out there.

There are so many issues that if we adopt this now, we are, I believe we're going to be tying our hands and
we're going to be hearing from staff over the next couple of months, but you guys approved this. All we're
doing is we're going with what you approved.
There are so many issues in this that I would please urge a no vote and we can talk about it at the budget
meeting that's coming up on the 22nd.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So we currently are at trying to move this back to F&P. That's what we're about ready
to vote on. So let's vote. Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: No.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What's the question?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So the question would be to recommit the FIFE to F&P.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do we need to do that to do the study session?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Is that a question?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I made the motion to move it back to F&P, and then the study session's after
that.
KAREN BENKER: OK, so that's a yes. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. So you're switching to a yes. OK. Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I need to abstain as Chair of that committee. Sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Larsen.

MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes
JULIEN BOUQUET: Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm also no, but it does look like it passes with eight votes. OK. So that'll be sent back
to F&P.
Moving on to our next action item. Longmont and Boulder fixed route service contract. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Any discussion?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Very quickly.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you. I asked a long time ago. So on this, I'm not going to vote no, but I did talk
to GM/CEO Johnson about this. The contract had one qualified bidder on it. I don't know if there were any
bidders that were not qualified bids thrown out. That's not great on a $100-plus million contract.
I think that we're also up against the wall on the expiration of this service. And so I think it would be even
worse to not have authorized service on the route. Certainly don't have time to reprocure it. I would just ask
that we work through options to do better bidder outreach and potentially break up procurements in the
future.
Certainly, the first time that we get only one bidder on a contract, they don't know that necessarily. The next
time, they very well might. So this one, I think we should keep an eye on going forward to make sure that
service in the future is in a competitive contract environment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. Secretary, last comment on this.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Our service is better when it's done by in-house labor. I understand and agree with
Director O'Keefe, there we go, that we can't vote this down, but we need a plan to take advantage of what

the legislature has given us the ability to do and transition more of our service to be in-house, run by RTD
employees rather than contracted. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Any no votes? OK.
Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What about me?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm so sorry. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
JACK KROLL: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.

BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a yes. It passes 10, 3 nos, 2 absent. I'm so sorry. It's late.
OK, we've moved the discussion item to the appropriate committee regarding the window covering
prohibition and system advertising policy amendment. Thank you for those.
Report of Director activities. OK. Well, that gets us to Other Matters. I know it's been a late night, but I do
want to really respect a colleague I've been working with now for five years. And that is Director Catlin. This
is Director Catlin's last meeting as a Director, but-- last Board meeting as a Director, about ready to say.
But she will still be serving on our Audit Committee.
I just want to say, it's been a privilege serving with you, Director Catlin. I want to speak on behalf of the
Board of the knowledge that you brought to this agency, the knowledge that you brought to this Board, your
dedication, your time serving on the Executive Committee, all the work that you've been able to do for your
constituents. And so I just want to give you round of applause.
Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. This happened rather suddenly, but I was able to meet the buyers of our
house at a going away party that our neighbors threw for us. And the gentleman in the family works
downtown. He works at 18th and California. He was a relocation from Kansas City. And we started talking,
and he told me that in the interim, he's been renting a house in Highlands Ranch until moving into ours.
And he said that he'd been taking the D Line regularly and that he just loves it. And he said, so I started
researching what I should do when I moved into the Valley of Ken Caryl Ranch. And lo and behold, I realized
that the person I was buying my house from was the Director of District 10.
And anyway, so we talked a little bit about it, but I sold my house to a transit user and one that really
appreciates it. So I just thought that was nice. And maybe he can encourage more of my neighbors to utilize
the service. But that was kind of a fun anecdote I wanted to share with all of you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That's amazing.
PEGGY CATLIN: I also wanted to say it's been a privilege to work with all of you and keep up the good
work.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: So our loss is South Dakota's gain. I do want to say that your contributions to this
Board have been wonderful. To Patrick's comments-- Director O'Keefe, sorry-- amen to what you brought
with your expertise. But your service is not just your 7 and 1/2 or 8 years, because I know you were
appointed before you were elected with several of us. It goes back for several decades serving the fine
folks of the state of Colorado in many different venues, including the state of Colorado, and all you've done.
So let tonight just be a small measurement of your accomplishments, because we know there are far, far
more. And we will miss that contribution. So like I said, South Dakota's gain. Boo hoo for us.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I, too, just want to echo those. Peggy, it's been really fun getting to know you as
a friend. I've had coffee and we've talked about all kinds of things, children, grandchildren. And so I
appreciate not only the work you've brought, but also the friendship that you give as well. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Chandler. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I want to express my sincere appreciation for
you, Director Catlin. I can recall your leadership role in reference to the GMOC committee that now is
currently the Performance Committee during the recruitment of the position in which I currently hold. More
specifically, coming into the organization, working with you in tandem, as we were looking at the Audit
Committee and what we had to do collectively, leveraging an app to peer review, then subsequently
retaining a consultant by virtue of the recommendation and ensuring that that could come to fruition for the
betterment of the organization.
So on behalf of the men and women that comprise this agency, thank you for your dedicated service. I
appreciate you standing in your truth, being a voice for the voiceless as it relates to ensuring that everybody
can move to and fro within the greater District, not that it always worked out in the manner in which we
intended, but want to acknowledge your selfless acts in reference to serving the Regional Transportation
District. And I wish you and Joel the best as you move to South Dakota. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll make it super quick, but I can't resist. It's been a pleasure working with you. You've
been a very calm and intelligent voice on so many issues. We worked so well together on so many
committees and projects. So thanks, Peggy.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
OK. Are there any other matters at this time? OK, motion to adjourn.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Thank you all. We're adjourned 11:13.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Arianna Martin
RTD.Directors
Railroad/Light Rail Crossing at Havana and Smith Road
Friday, September 12, 2025 8:26:18 AM

Hello,
I hope you are all doing well. I am writing to share a concern regarding the light rail and train
crossing at Smith Rd and Havana. I commute from Northfield Central Park to the Anschutz
campus daily. I drop off my daughter at her school via Havana to MLK Jr.
There have been multiple occasions in which the barriers are not timed appropriately, stuck, or
there are significant delays related to cargo trains. As a result, traffic is backlogged and we
have been stuck for 15 minutes or more. There are limited ways to reroute to side roads.
I have lived in other states that have moved to under/overpasses around railways for safety and
traffic flow reasons. Can this be considered for this particular location?
There have been significant increases in commuters, and I anticipate more with
increased housing north of 70. How can I support this initiative?
Any information would be much appreciated.
Sincerely,
Arianna Martin

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Beth Lang
RTD.Directors
Please advocate & vote against proposed changes to the Access on Demand program
Friday, September 12, 2025 8:39:30 AM

WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may
not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.

Dear RTD Board of Directors - I am writing to ask that you advocate and vote against the
changes to Access on Demand.
The increase in rates, hours and maximum ride cost will directly hurt the most vulnerable in
our society.
As a parent of a young adult with special needs, and a coordinator of programs for kids, youth
and adults with special needs and their families, I understand intimately the harm this will
cause for individuals striving to develop and maintain their independence.
Sadly, Access A Ride is not an effective or viable option of many with disabilities. It is costprohibitive, resulting in individuals on an extremely limited income having to choose between
vital needs such as rent, food and heat/AC to afford to take Access A Ride to maintain a job or
run necessary errands. Arrival windows can be so broad that a person can arrive far too early
to a location, making it unsafe for them unless they have an attendant with them. Due to this, I
dont use Access A Ride for my daughter if she is going to an unfamiliar location, which is
very limiting. Reservation times are also a barrier being so far in advance of the requested
ride.
Access on Demand on the other hand has more much precise arrival times, an extremely short
request window and is currently extremely affordable due to the daily and maximum ride
limits. Adding even $6.50 per ride to this program will directly and very negatively impact so
many that are dependent on safe, accessible and convenient public transportation to navigate
their city.
People often take for granted being able to jump in a car and go where they want, when they
want, as soon as they want. Taking away the ability for those most vulnerable in our city to
also access that due to the changes proposed is not fair, and extremely harmful.
Thank you for your consideration in this matter.
Blessings - Beth
Beth Lang
Director of Specialized Ministries
Colorado Community Church
* CHOSEN Special Needs Ministry
* Mental Health Ministry
* Deaf/Hard of Hearing Ministry

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Denise Howd
RTD.Directors
On Demand Rides
Friday, September 12, 2025 7:49:50 AM

I am really really worried & concerned.
In order for me to hold onto Medicaid & benefits, I need to continue to work p/t at Home
Depot.
But I leave work at 11pm & only on Demand rides provide a safe & dependable ride home.
If you cut the hours, how am I to get home?
How can I keep my job?
How van I stay on Meducaid.
Thos is how important the on Demand ride service is in my life.
I truly can't continue with my life & challenges if this is changed.
Please.
Be careful of how you are affecting lives with your decisions.
Neurodivergent lives that can't drive.
Until you do a complete turn around service with access a ride thos is my only possible
solution to keep the hours later.
Thank you

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

michelle-nichols
RTD.Directors
Access on Demand
Saturday, September 13, 2025 7:39:10 AM

I am sending you this email with regards to my concerns about changes being considered for the
Access on Demand program. I do not wish to see base fares of $6.00 or more. I can afford $2.50 as a
base fare. I also would like for access on demand to continue to be unrestricted and provide 60 rides
per month. It is not feasible for me to take access a ride home from work due to the fact that I along
with my co-workers would be waiting outside in an unsafe neighborhood.
Thank You,
Michelle Nichols

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Samantha Frazee
RTD.Directors
To the RTD Directors
Tuesday, September 16, 2025 8:42:40 PM

Thank you for signing the IGA to form a joint service with Front Range Passenger Rail
and all the entities of CDOT. The team that you will be working with renews my faith in
our transit agency that our FasTracks tax dollars will be spent per the 2004 FasTracks
ballot initiative. The FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) fund should be used for
the joint project. I know that you will do the right thing to become part of this amazing
project.
Thank you,
Samantha Frazee
Longmont, CO

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Rev. Emily Flemming
RTD.Directors
FISA & NoCO
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 10:34:11 AM

WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may
not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.

Dear RTD Directors,
Thank you for your service, and for making the steps necessary to move us towards public
transportation connecting Denver to Northern Colorado. As a resident of Johnstown, working
full-time as Senior Pastor of Christ Church United Methodist at 690 Colorado Blvd, I am
DELIGHTED to finally receive news of progress, plans and a timeline!
I appreciate you signing the IGA to form a joint service with Front Range Passenger Rail and all
the entities of CDOT. The team that you will be working with renews my (almost destroyed)
faith in our transit agency . I continue to hope and pray that our FasTracks tax dollars will be
spent per the 2004 FasTracks ballot initiative. The FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
fund should be used for this crucial joint project.
Leading is difficult, especially in these post-COVID, violent days, but we are seeing more and
more requests for pastoral and financial support from people stranded across our area. And
your support WILL make a huge impact on me, my family, my church, and our communities (in
Denver and Johnstown). Please do the right thing to become part of this amazing project.
With blessings for your work,
Rev. Emily Flemming
___________________________________________
Rev. Emily S. Flemming (she/her)
Pastor, Christ Church United Methodist, 690 Colorado Blvd, Denver, CO 80206
pastor@christchurchcolorado.org,
website: www.christchurchcolorado.org
"No matter who you are or where you're from, you are LOVED and welcome!"

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Nick Orton
RTD.Directors
Front Range Passenger Rail
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 2:02:30 PM

To the RTD Directors,
Thank you for signing the IGA to form a joint service with Front Range Passenger Rail and all the
entities of CDOT. The team that you will be working with renews my faith in our transit agency
that our FasTracks tax dollars will be spent per the 2004 FasTracks ballot initiative. The
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) fund should be used for the joint project. I know
that you will do the right thing to become part of this amazing project.
-Nicholas B. Orton
In a minute there is time for decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse.  T.S.
Eliot

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Ann Cisneros
RTD.Directors
Keep Access on Demand monetarily accessible
Thursday, September 18, 2025 8:55:48 AM

Hi, All -Is it true that you are considering increasing the cost for Access on
Demand to $6.50 one-way? And reducing the stipend?
Such cost increases would render Access on Demand unavailable to those
who truly need it. Living with a disability is already isolating and
financially draining. It is detrimental to the community as a whole to
render people with disabilities effectively housebound because they don't
have an affordable way to get around.
Please find a way to leave Access on Demand financially accessible to its
passengers.
Best,
--Ann
Ann Cisneros

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

dcalkins9
RTD.Directors
Access on Demand
Friday, September 19, 2025 7:52:43 AM

September 18, 2025
Director Hardwick:
Regarding Access on Demand, as a user of this service i have
a few concerns regarding the changes RTD has suggested. As a visually
impaired person this service take me to and from work, doctor
appointments, social events and places Access a ride does not go to.
Regarding Access a ride a person can be on a bus for over 2 hours. i have been late to work several days a week
using Access a ride. My pick up is at 6:15 A,M. to be at work by 9:00 A.M.
Access a ride has made people late for their doctor and dialysis appointments making them miss their treatments.
Access on Demand gets them their on time.
I think the board members should use Access a Ride to see all
of the challenges that service provides vs Access on Demand
The changes world impact all seniors, persons with disabilities who use Access on Demand.
We all struggle between buying food, medicines now cost of transportation! i hope your consider this email while
making
your decision.

Thank you for taking the time to read this email

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

dishonspears
RTD.Directors
Dishon Spears A Blind Father
Monday, September 22, 2025 11:51:48 AM
Dishons RTD Letter.docx

Hello Directors,
I have attached a letter about how I feel about what is going on with the Access on Demand (AOD).
Please consider everyones comment and letter that comes before you. I want to continue living the
life that I want to live as a blind father.
Sincerely
Dishon Spears

Sept. 22, 2025

Dear Committee Members,
As a blind father, I want to express how vital the Access on Demand (AOD) service is to my
family and to others in the Denver Metro area who are blind or visually impaired. On some
mornings, I am responsible for taking my son to school and then after going to work at the
Colorado Center for the Blind (CCB). Without this service, the logistics of getting him there
safely and on time would be far more difficult.
The flexibility and affordability of Access on Demand (AOD) allows me to be the parent my
son deserves, for me, that means me being present, dependable, and able to take him where he
needs to go just like any other father. Increasing the fair from $2.50 to $6.50 and imposing
service hour restrictions directly threatens that independence and reliability. For many of us,
this service is not just about transportation; it is about dignity, opportunity, and the ability to
fulfill everyday responsibilities that most parents take for granted.
This program has been life-changing for so many of us that are blind or visually impaired in
this community. I strongly urge the full board to reconsider the most recent committee
recommendation and to adopt a better solution that truly reflects fairness and accessibility, one
that keeps this service affordable and available without restrictive barriers that jeopardize our
daily lives.
Thank you for considering how these decisions directly affect families like mine.

Sincerely,
Dishon Spears

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Kristin Hyser
RTD.Directors
Ensuring Equitable Access Through the Access-on-Demand Program
Monday, September 22, 2025 11:46:15 AM

WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may
not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.

Dear RTD Board Members,
I am writing to express my support for the continuation and strengthening of the
Access-on-Demand (AOD) Program, while raising concerns about the changes to
service boundaries and fare structure currently being considered.
The AOD program has been transformational for many residents by enhancing
mobility, independence, and quality of life. I appreciate RTDs commitment to
expanding mobility options, and I urge you to adopt modifications that ensure equity,
inclusivity, and meaningful access for all customers across our region.
Several of the recommendations being made to the Board are appreciated and
ensure equity, inclusivity, and meaningful access for all customers across our region.
However the increase in fares remains a concern.
Service Area
We affirm the recommendation to define the service area to all locations within the
current RTD Service Area. This adjustment is especially critical in Broomfield, where
there is currently a transportation service desert in the heart of the community. To
include all locations within the current RTD Service Area ensures our most
vulnerable residents are not left without meaningful public transit access.This will
mean the difference between residents being able to reach jobs, healthcare,
programs, and community lifeor being left isolated and cut off.
Multi-Stop Trips
We also support allowing customers to schedule multi-stop trips with up to two
destinations per origin, such as traveling from home to daycare and then to work.
The initial destination should not count toward the 60-trip monthly cap or require a
base fare, provided the transportation provider has the capacity to accommodate
multi-stop routing. This flexibility will better meet the realities of daily life for many
customers and further RTDs goals of increasing independence and accessibility.
Fare Structure
Finally, we must express concern about the proposed fare structure.
While the standard $6.50 fare may be challenging for many riders, even the LiVE
discounted fare of $3.25 will create a significant financial burden for some of our most

vulnerable community members.
We must find a sustainable solution so that cost does not become another barrier to
independence.
The decision you are about to make will set a precedent for what equitable, inclusive
public transit looks like in our region. I hope you will seize this opportunity to ensure
AOD truly fulfills its purposehelping residents travel independently and
participate fully in community life.
Thank you for your leadership and for your thoughtful consideration of these critical
issues.
Sincerely,
Kristin Hyser

Kristin Hyser
Executive Director

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Kyle F
RTD.Directors
RTD Proposed Modification of the RFP for a new Advertising Contract
Monday, September 22, 2025 12:42:54 PM

Good afternoon, RTD Directors,
Im Kyle Finseth, a resident in Chaffee Park (Denver). Im reaching out to ask you support
keeping the current RFP for solicitation of a new advertising contract for RTD as is. RTD
should be doing everything in its power to maximize, and diversify its revenue streams during
this time of financial stress on the organization. Restricting the amount of space available on
RTD vehicles to advertisements needlessly limits the amount of revenue for RTD.
I am most frequently found on the 19, A-Line, AT, 15, and 0. When talking with other riders, I
do not hear complaints about ads, I hear people asking for the bus to be on time, or at least
have timely notices if theres an issue. No one is mad about the amount of ad space dedicated
on the vehicles.
I know there is some advocacy work done by local transit advocacy organization that is
strongly against any ads on RTD vehicles or in the stations. Im writing to give Directors a
different opinion. Maybe one day, with RTD fully expanded, has great frequencies on all
routes, and record ridership numbers (or at least those of pre-COVID) revisiting RTDs
advertisement policies will be beneficial.
Please reach out with any questions,
Kyle Finseth

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Cynthia Soguero
RTD.Directors
Longmont to DIA RTD
Tuesday, September 23, 2025 2:38:38 PM

Please consider a direct route from Longmont to the airport. If we could get a park and ride
somewhere in the vicinity of 119 and I-25, that would be great.
It seems like all other surrounding cities have an RTD line to the airport, and everyone I know
in Longmont complains that we don't have one.
I needed to resort to using an Uber last month, and it was $100 one way.
Thanks,
Cynthia Soguero

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Elva Martinez
RTD.Directors
RTD Longmont to Denver
Tuesday, September 23, 2025 12:17:41 PM

Atencin Karen Benker

Estamos viendo la necesidad de tener un RTD de Longmont al
Aeropuerto de Denver directo ya que las tarifas de uber, Lyft y otros
transportistas son demasiado altos y con la economa ahora por los cielos
es muy difcil tener un transporte con precios mdicos..
Le agradezco su atencin a esta carta
Atentamente
Elva J. Martinez
Saludos,
Elva J. Martnez

Translation:
Attention Karen Benker
We are seeing the need to have an RTD from Longmont to Denver Airport direct as the fares
of uber, Lyft and other carriers are too high and with the economy now skyrocketing it is very
difficult to have affordable transportation.
I thank you for your attention to this letter
Kind regards
Elva J. Martinez

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

mkaiser
RTD.Directors
Access on Demand
Tuesday, September 23, 2025 8:18:53 PM

To whom it may concern:
I am writing this letter to express my concerns regarding the changes RTD is considering making to
the Access on Demand program.
I am blind, an Access-a-ride user. I use both Access-a-Ride and Access on demand to get to and from
work. I work at the ARC call center along with eight other disabled people. Seven of them are blind
and one is in a wheelchair. As you know, the fair for access-a-Ride is only $4.50. The Access on
Demand is to be paid by the user after the $25.00 discount from RTD with 60 rides monthly. This
program is very successful and benefits those who participate in the program.
The changes RTD would like to make in this program would cause a hardship to everyone who uses
it. The $6.50 fair is going to cause added
Expenses to seniors who are on fixed income as well as people who use Lyft or Uber to get to and
from work. $6.50 is actually more expensive than a tank of gas and I dont think anyone on the board
of RTD would be willing to pay this exorbitant expense. Also, people would have to be forced to go
back on Access-a-Ride which is in many ways very inefficient. I have heard on zoom meeting that
some people have to use Lyft or Uber to make it to their Dialysis appointments in time as Access-aRide often makes them late and they miss their treatments. Also, sometimes people are on the
Access-a-Ride bus for more then 2 hours. With Access on Demand, they can get to where they are
going immediately just like you can when you hop into your car. I believe that every member of the
RTD board should have to use Access-a-Ride for a month so they can understand why the Access on
demand program is so successful.
Thank you for taking the time to read my e-mail.
Sincerely,
Marlene Kaiser

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Brandon Figliolino
Board Office
Public Comment
Tuesday, September 23, 2025 11:28:00 AM

Hi Team,
I received a public comment from a family friend over Messenger. Can you please add it to the
Board Report?
If you have any power in advocating for RTD continuing the ride share for accessibility it would
help our extended familyWe have an extended family member who is autistic and uses RTD
to get to various things. It really helps her with independence.  Michelle Berndt Ewer.
Because it was sent as a Messenger, I cannot forward the text or copy it without turning it into a
screenshot.
Sincerely,
Brandon Figliolino, MPA
Manager, Community Engagement
Communications and Engagement Department

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Missy Reynolds
RTD Board Office
RTD Bus from Longmont to DIA/DEN
Tuesday, September 23, 2025 4:54:12 PM

Hello!
I am writing to request an RTD bus from Longmont to the Denver airport. We lost our only
shuttle a couple of months ago and now have to either drive there or catch the RTD from
Boulder, neither of which is in any way convenient especially if traveling at night or early
morning.
There are MANY people in Longmont are looking for an economical and convenient way to
get to the airport.
Please consider this and thank you!

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Patricia Journeay
RTD.Directors
Airport Ride
Tuesday, September 23, 2025 9:42:45 AM

As a Longmont resident, I strongly suggest that we begin direct service to the Denver International Airport. Many of
us have used the Eight Black Shuttle for years. That option is no longer available. A bus or train directly to DIA
would be a true gift. Lets make this happen.
Patricia Journeay
Longmont, CO

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Sue Barcklow
RTD.Directors
Rtd direct Longmont to DIA
Tuesday, September 23, 2025 11:21:47 AM

As a resident Of Longmont, I would love a direct way to get to the airport without driving. Please Rtd do that.
Thank you
Sue Barcklow

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Tina McDonald
RTD.Directors
access on demand proposed rule changes
Wednesday, September 24, 2025 2:44:07 PM

While understanding the need for some of the proposals, there are two I would like to call into
question that can place a severe burden on riders - limiting the hours to access on demand, and
the 3/4 mile from fixed route.
Specifically limiting hours of trip availability from infusion centers, medical imaging centers,
and hospitals to a riders home address. I cannot tell you the number of times I spent sitting in
a hospital ER waiting room overnight, feeling miserable unable to sleep, and catching every
airborn disease that came through, (specifically Good Samaritan in Lafayette) because I was
discharged, but you cant call for a regular AAR trip on the same day, especially if you get
discharged after 5 pm. Due to budget cuts in recent years, the more residential fixed routes
have also decreased hours of service. In extremely hot or cold weather, for those without
power chairs, this places riders at an increased risk of medical emergency walking to
where the closest drop off point is to their home, or to the hospital.
Im not asking for unlimited miles, but say two miles from a fixed route service, and
unlimited time frame JUST from/to medical facilities, and grocery stores (that have
pharmacies) and pharmacies from any address within RTD service area. Because
unfortunately for those of us with certain neurological conditions, or concussions from
falls, we cant stay by ourselves during flares, and may need to be at someone elses
address. Because do you really want taxpayers to be footing the $1900 bill for an
ambulance for a non emergency Medicare or Medicaid covered medical trip instead
of that $20 Uber/Lyft/taxi subsidy? Or the hospital bill from catching all the infections,
instead of giving a person a ride home after a sprain or broken bone or asthma
attack.
Thank you.
Tina McDonald

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Elsbeth Sweeney
RTD.Directors
Airport Bus
Wednesday, September 24, 2025 8:18:27 AM

It would be great if Rtd service would support the Longmont community. I used to live in Boulder and continue to
use this service but would really appreciate a service from Longmont.
Thank you.
Sent from my iPhone

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

MIKE SEELAND
RTD.Directors
Longmont dia service
Wednesday, September 24, 2025 3:41:24 PM

I travel 1 to 2 weeks every month of the year.
Right now I just use a parking service because it takes so long to get to the Boulder RTD to the
airport.
If it was in longmont, I'd use it all the time.
Get Outlook for Android

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Sue
RTD.Directors
AOD modifications
Wednesday, September 24, 2025 2:26:02 PM

As parents of an adult child with disabilities who is a paratransit user, we appreciate being able to
give you personal feedback to the RTD proposal to modify the existing AOD program.
As the proposal stands now we urge you to:
1. Maintain the AOD services to the entire RTD service area
2. Lower the proposed fare from 6.50 to either 4.50 or 2.50 The increase from no fare to 6.50
is a huge financial burden to this population most of whom live on Social Security and
limited income from part time jobs.
3. Maintain the hours for AOD to be 24/7 to allow for late shift workers to use the services. Do
not limit the hours for AOD based on the needs of the WAV services.
4. Conduct a third party review of all paratransit services to gain feedback on AAR, AOD,
WAV and customer satisfaction andexperiences and what they would recommend.
Thank you for your consideration.
Suzan and Michael Myers
Superior, CO

Sent from my iPad

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Amy McBride
RTD Board Office
Direct Longmont to Airport RTD
Thursday, September 25, 2025 4:42:01 AM

Hello,
Please urgently consider implementing an RTD that takes people from Longmont to the
airport.
The hideous traffic to Boukder, construction, and parking issues are making this once
convenient airport bus, no longer a feasible option. Longmont is a thriving suburb that would
greatly benefit from improved bus service and routes.
I urge the board to consider a swift solution to improving the access and quality of RTD by
bringing a airport to Longmont and back service to our community.
Thank you,
Amy McBride

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Patricia Patrone
RTD.Directors
Bus service to DIA
Thursday, September 25, 2025 8:03:46 AM

Sent from my iPhoneThe city of Longmont and the immediate surrounding areas need a bus transportation service to
DIA. We are left with poor access to the airport as private ventures are expensive, and schedules are inconvenient.
We are in need of public transportation.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Tina McDonald
RTD.Directors; Julie Reiskin
Re: access on demand proposed rule changes
Thursday, September 25, 2025 8:08:21 AM

On Wed, Sep 24, 2025 at 2:43 PM Tina McDonald wrote:
While understanding the need for some of the proposals, there are two I would like to call
into question that can place a severe burden on riders - limiting the hours to access on
demand, and the 3/4 mile from fixed route.
Specifically limiting hours of trip availability from infusion centers, medical imaging
centers, and hospitals to a riders home address. I cannot tell you the number of times I
spent sitting in a hospital ER waiting room overnight, feeling miserable unable to sleep, and
catching every airborn disease that came through, (specifically Good Samaritan in
Lafayette) because I was discharged, but you cant call for a regular AAR trip on the same
day, especially if you get discharged after 5 pm. Due to budget cuts in recent years, the
more residential fixed routes have also decreased hours of service. In extremely hot or
cold weather, for those without power chairs, this places riders at an increased risk
of medical emergency walking to where the closest drop off point is to their home,
or to the hospital.
Im not asking for unlimited miles, but say two miles from a fixed route service, and
unlimited time frame JUST from/to medical facilities, and grocery stores (that have
pharmacies) and pharmacies from any address within RTD service area. Because
unfortunately for those of us with certain neurological conditions, or concussions
from falls, we cant stay by ourselves during flares, and may need to be at someone
elses address. Because do you really want taxpayers to be footing the $1900 bill
for an ambulance for a non emergency Medicare or Medicaid covered medical trip
instead of that $20 Uber/Lyft/taxi subsidy? Or the hospital bill from catching all the
infections, instead of giving a person a ride home after a sprain or broken bone or
asthma attack.
Thank you.
Tina McDonald

September 25, 2025
Dear RTD Board of Directors and CEO/GM Johnson:
The National Federation of the Blind of Colorado and the Colorado Cross-Disability
Coalition are recommending the following solution to the AAR/AOD issue: We have
been part of the process since discussions began, and are proposing this now because
we only had since last week to analyze the proposal made by the
operations committee. We stand ready to work with you in a productive manner to
achieve the goals we believe everyone wants, which is a transit system that is
accessible to everyone, honoring the fact that we all have responsibility to make it
work.
Immediate action:
 Implement a fare of $4.50.
 Accept reduced cap of $20 per ride.
 NO time limit--number of rides and amounts are capped so this is not a cost

saving.

 Allow multi stop trips-dollar amounts and trips are capped so this is not a cost

savings. All AOD users have a choice to use the service that has this feature.

 Only expand the service area to within two miles of a fixed route. This should

include stops on regional and commuter rail.

Over the next year:
It has been pointed out that AOD is more desirable and less expensive than AAR. The
problem is AOD does not serve all paratransit eligible people: Currently it does not
serve the following groups:
1) People who need door-to-door service.
2) People who need trained drivers due to cognitive or behavioral disabilities (they also
need door to door but may need a better trained driver like what you have on WAV).
3) People that cannot use smart phones.
We believe there is a way to make the AOD work for these folks with some creativity
and expanded contracting.
We would like RTD to explore the following:

1) Allow a request on the app that would be like WAV but could indicate the need for a
trained driver. Perhaps those folks get a higher subsidy to encourage drivers to meet
this higher standard. A similar add on for door to door could also happen. We believe
we could find at least one company to do these rides; I am sure COOP would do this.
2) Contract with Hop Skip Drive for those who are ambulatory but need some extra
attention or support. They take children with severe disabilities to and from school.
3) Create a workaround for people that need to use a phone.
These might not be the exact solutions, but we believe with true solution focused
dialogue and teamwork between the disability community and RTD we can figure this
out in a way that will not break the bank. NFB-CO and CCDC understand there are
limited resources and are mindful of the need to reduce costs. We believe much of the
tension comes from trying to create equality between the AAR and AOD experience.
We want to be sure our siblings using AAR also have their needs met so our idea is to
make AOD accessible to all paratransit eligible passengers. Even a higher subsidy for
those with additional service needs would not equal the cost of AAR today. Once a
transition occurs, the AAR infrastructure would be significantly less as it becomes more
of a contract management and oversight function outside of eligibility, which is already
contracted. We understand AAR is currently providing all the WAV services and this
may or may not need to continue; but it could continue under a new model.

Respectfully

Jessica Beecham, President NFB-CO

Julie Reiskin Co-Executive Director CCDC

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Amy Williams
RTD.Directors
AOD plea- please do not increase costs and reduce services
Monday, September 29, 2025 8:21:19 AM

Dear Director(s),
At the 9/30/25 RTD Board of Directors meeting, I request the following:
1Wholly reject the recommended action of increased costs and reduced services for the
AOD program.
2Engage a third party to conduct a comprehensive Impact Study on the entire service
offerings of accessible transportation.
3Uphold the intent of the overwhelmingly voter-approved Ballot Measure 7A.
As the mom and guardian of a 23 year old son with autism, I request you not increase
costs. My son uses this service to go to work at Home Depot and to go to a day program,
and this extra cost takes so much out of his pocket. It affects so many others as well. He is
going to need to use this service for the foreseeable future and potentially increase his use
as he becomes more independent and capable. He isn't capable (yet) of earning a high
wage, so this takes it out of the little money he already has.
Please reconsider!
Thank you,
Amy Williams

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Scroggs, Danielle
RTD Board Office; Chris Gutschenritter
AoD Advocacy - Danielle Scroggs
Monday, September 29, 2025 9:41:15 AM
Letter to RTD - AoD 2025.pdf
Examples of Issues.pdf

This message was sent securely using Zix

Dear RTD Board of Directors,
My name is Danielle Scroggs and I am a Recreational Therapist at Craig Hospital
(District D). I work daily with individuals who have sustained spinal cord injuries and brain
injuries, often leading to lifelong accessibility needs. For my patients, safe and reliable
transportation is not just a convenience, it is a lifeline to medical care, employment, and
community participation.
I am writing to express my deep concern about the proposed changes to the Access-onDemand (AoD) program. While I understand the financial challenges RTD is facing, I believe
the cuts as currently outlined would create serious barriers to independence, equity, and health
outcomes for people with disabilities.
AoD has been incredibly important for many of my patients. Unlike traditional paratransit, it
offers flexibility and timeliness that align with medical schedules, therapy needs, and social
opportunities. Without it, many individuals would face missed appointments, increased
isolation, and diminished quality of life.
What the Data Shows
AoD has grown from about 6,250 rides/month in 2021 to nearly 62,000 rides/month in 2024,
showing how essential the service has become.
The program now costs about $1 million/month to operate, reflecting high demand.
In June 2024, about 3,200 of RTDs 14,300 paratransit-eligible customers used AoD and 35%
of users rely exclusively on AoD rather than combining it with Access-a-Ride.
RTD currently has more than 16,000 active Access-a-Ride customers, meaning AoD is
serving a large and growing share of this community.

These numbers clearly demonstrate that AoD is not a fringe service, it is central to the
transportation needs of people with disabilities in Denver.
Concerns About the Proposed Changes
Trip caps of 60/month would force people to choose between medical care, grocery trips,
work, and community engagement. Many of my patients require multiple rides per day.
Increased costs disproportionately impact individuals living on fixed disability incomes. Even
modest fare increases create barriers.
Reduced autonomy puts people with disabilities at a further disadvantage compared to
nondisabled peers, undermining years of progress toward equity and inclusion.

I urge the Board to view AoD not as a transportation expense but as an investment in public
health, equity, and independence. Restricting this service risks higher long-term costs, both
financially and socially, while maintaining it supports healthier, more engaged communities.
Thank you for your consideration of this incredibly important issue.

Sincerely,

Danielle Scroggs
Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist

Thanks,

Danielle Scroggs, CTRS | She/Her
Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist
Aquatic Therapist
craighospital.org

Confidentiality Note: This e-mail, including any attachment to it, may contain material that is
confidential, proprietary, privileged and/or "Protected Health Information," within the
meaning of the regulations under the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act as
amended. If it is not clear that you are the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that you
have received this transmittal in error, and any review, dissemination, distribution or copying
of this e-mail, including any attachment to it, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this email in error, Do not reply, but contact the sender and delete it from your system.
Confidentiality Note: This e-mail, including any attachment to it, may contain material that is
confidential, proprietary, privileged and/or "Protected Health Information," within the
meaning of the regulations under the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act as
amended. If it is not clear that you are the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that you
have received this transmittal in error, and any review, dissemination, distribution or copying
of this e-mail, including any attachment to it, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this email in error, Do not reply, but contact the sender and delete it from your system.
This message was secured by Zix.

60 Ride Caps:
Examples of how a 60 ride cap would be detrimental:
 A person attending therapies 3x/week plus a weekly doctors appointment = 32 rides/month just
for healthcare. That leaves fewer than 30 rides for groceries, social activities, or emergencies.
 A person working part-time 3 days/week (round trip) uses 24 rides/month just to get to work.
 A full-time worker commuting 5 days/week would hit the 60-ride cap in three weeks, leaving
them stranded the last week of the month.
 Grocery shopping once a week (round trip) = 8 rides/month.
 Visiting friends/family or engaging in adaptive recreation just twice a week = 16 rides/month.
 Emergencies.

Financial Burden:
Healthcare & Therapy
 A patient going to physical therapy 3x/week + one weekly doctors appointment:
o Current cost: $2.50  16 trips = $40/month
o Proposed cost: $6.50  16 trips = $104/month
o Thats an extra $64/month just to access healthcare.
Work & Employment
 A person working part-time 3 days/week (24 trips/month):
o Current cost: $60/month
o Proposed cost: $156/month
o Increase: $96/month, nearly doubling transportation costs.
 For a full-time worker commuting 5 days/week (40 trips/month):
o Current cost: $100/month
o Proposed cost: $260/month
o Increase: $160/month, which could wipe out a large portion of limited disability income.
Daily Living & Independence
 Grocery shopping weekly (8 trips/month):
o Current: $20/month
o Proposed: $52/month
o Increase: $32/month for just food access.
 Adding one social outing per week (another 8 trips/month):
o Current: $20/month
o Proposed: $52/month
o Total for groceries + one weekly outing: $40  $104/month.
The Big Picture
 A person combining therapy, part-time work, groceries, and social activities could easily see
monthly transportation costs rise from $120 to $312a 160% increase.
 For those living on fixed SSI or SSDI incomes (typically $943$1,500/month), that increase
represents 2030% of their entire monthly income.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Greg L
RTD.Directors
Proposed fare increases
Monday, September 29, 2025 9:43:19 AM

Dear Directors,
At the September 30, 2025 RTD Board of Directors meeting, I request the following:
1. Wholly reject the recommended action of increased costs and reduced services for the AOD program.
2. Engage a third-party to conduct a comprehensive impact study on the entire service offerings of accessible
transportation.
3. Uphold the intent of the overwhelmingly voter approved ballot measure 7A
Thank you,
Greg and Allison Lyeki
Sent from my iPhone

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Jolee Harston
RTD.Directors
Access on Demand cuts
Monday, September 29, 2025 11:09:47 AM

Dear Directors,
At the 9/30/25 RTD Board of Directors meeting, I request the following:
1Wholly reject the recommended action of increased costs and reduced services
for the AOD program.
2Engage a third party to conduct a comprehensive Impact Study on the entire
service offerings of accessible transportation.
3Uphold the intent of the overwhelmingly voter-approved Ballot Measure 7A.
I am a Denver resident and user of Access on Demand. It had changed my life and allowed me
to stay integrated into the community. Any change in fare would affect my and so many others
ability to use this wonderful service. Please do not change this service.
Thanks,
Jolee Harston

Confidentiality Statement: The contents of this e-mail message, including any attachments, are intended solely for
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or privileged information. If you are not the intended recipient of this
message or their designated representative, you are hereby notified that dissemination, distribution, or copying of
this communication is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please immediately notify the
sender by email reply or phone and delete this message and its attachments, if any. Thank you.

Dear RTD Board of Directors,
My name is Kamryn Cushway and I am a Recreational Therapist at Craig Hospital
(District D). I work daily with individuals who have sustained spinal cord injuries and brain
injuries, often leading to lifelong accessibility needs. For my patients, safe and reliable
transportation is not just a convenience, it is a lifeline to medical care, employment, and
community participation.
I am writing to express my deep concern about the proposed changes to the Access-on-Demand
(AoD) program. While I understand the financial challenges RTD is facing, I believe the cuts as
currently outlined would create serious barriers to independence, equity, and health outcomes for
people with disabilities.
AoD has been incredibly important for many of my patients. Unlike traditional paratransit, it
offers flexibility and timeliness that align with medical schedules, therapy needs, and social
opportunities. Without it, many individuals would face missed appointments, increased isolation,
and diminished quality of life.
What the Data Shows


AoD has grown from about 6,250 rides/month in 2021 to nearly 62,000 rides/month in
2024, showing how essential the service has become.



The program now costs about $1 million/month to operate, reflecting high demand.



In June 2024, about 3,200 of RTDs 14,300 paratransit-eligible customers used AoD and
35% of users rely exclusively on AoD rather than combining it with Access-a-Ride.



RTD currently has more than 16,000 active Access-a-Ride customers, meaning AoD is
serving a large and growing share of this community.

These numbers clearly demonstrate that AoD is not a fringe service, it is central to the
transportation needs of people with disabilities in Denver.
Concerns About the Proposed Changes


Trip caps of 60/month would force people to choose between medical care, grocery trips,
work, and community engagement. Many of my patients require multiple rides per day.



Increased costs disproportionately impact individuals living on fixed disability incomes.
Even modest fare increases create barriers.



Reduced autonomy puts people with disabilities at a further disadvantage compared to
nondisabled peers, undermining years of progress toward equity and inclusion.

I urge the Board to view AoD not as a transportation expense but as an investment in public
health, equity, and independence. Restricting this service risks higher long-term costs, both
financially and socially, while maintaining it supports healthier, more engaged communities.
Thank you for your consideration of this incredibly important issue.
Sincerely,

Kamryn Cushway, CTRS
Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist

3425 S. Clarkson St.
Englewood, CO 80113
craighospital.org

Dear RTD Board of Directors,
My name is Kelly Secor and I am a Recreational Therapist at Craig Hospital (District D).
I work daily with individuals who have sustained spinal cord injuries and brain injuries, often
leading to lifelong accessibility needs. For my patients, safe and reliable transportation is not just
a convenience, it is a lifeline to medical care, employment, and community participation.
I am writing to express my deep concern about the proposed changes to the Access-on-Demand
(AoD) program. While I understand the financial challenges RTD is facing, I believe the cuts as
currently outlined would create serious barriers to independence, equity, and health outcomes for
people with disabilities.
AoD has been incredibly important for many of my patients. Unlike traditional paratransit, it
offers flexibility and timeliness that align with medical schedules, therapy needs, and social
opportunities. Without it, many individuals would face missed appointments, increased isolation,
and diminished quality of life.
What the Data Shows


AoD has grown from about 6,250 rides/month in 2021 to nearly 62,000 rides/month in
2024, showing how essential the service has become.



The program now costs about $1 million/month to operate, reflecting high demand.



In June 2024, about 3,200 of RTDs 14,300 paratransit-eligible customers used AoD and
35% of users rely exclusively on AoD rather than combining it with Access-a-Ride.



RTD currently has more than 16,000 active Access-a-Ride customers, meaning AoD is
serving a large and growing share of this community.

These numbers clearly demonstrate that AoD is not a fringe service, it is central to the
transportation needs of people with disabilities in Denver.
Concerns About the Proposed Changes


Trip caps of 60/month would force people to choose between medical care, grocery trips,
work, and community engagement. Many of my patients require multiple rides per day.



Increased costs disproportionately impact individuals living on fixed disability incomes.
Even modest fare increases create barriers.



Reduced autonomy puts people with disabilities at a further disadvantage compared to
nondisabled peers, undermining years of progress toward equity and inclusion.

I urge the Board to view AoD not as a transportation expense but as an investment in public
health, equity, and independence. Restricting this service risks higher long-term costs, both
financially and socially, while maintaining it supports healthier, more engaged communities.
Thank you for your consideration of this incredibly important issue.
Sincerely,

Kelly Secor
Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist

3425 S. Clarkson St.
Englewood, CO 80113
craighospital.org

Dear RTD Board of Directors,
My name is Kimi Hashimoto and I am a Rehabilitation Psychology Postdoctoral Fellow
at Craig Hospital (District D). I work daily with individuals who have sustained spinal cord
injuries and brain injuries, often leading to lifelong accessibility needs. For my patients, safe and
reliable transportation is not just a convenience, it is a lifeline to medical care, employment, and
community participation and has significant impact on an individuals mental health and wellbeing.
I am writing to express my deep concern about the proposed changes to the Access-on-Demand
(AoD) program. While I understand the financial challenges RTD is facing, I believe the cuts as
currently outlined would create serious barriers to independence, equity, and health outcomes for
people with disabilities.
AoD has been incredibly important for many of my patients. Unlike traditional paratransit, it
offers flexibility and timeliness that align with medical schedules, therapy needs, and social
opportunities. Without it, many individuals would face missed appointments, increased isolation,
and diminished quality of life.
What the Data Shows


AoD has grown from about 6,250 rides/month in 2021 to nearly 62,000 rides/month in
2024, showing how essential the service has become.



The program now costs about $1 million/month to operate, reflecting high demand.



In June 2024, about 3,200 of RTDs 14,300 paratransit-eligible customers used AoD and
35% of users rely exclusively on AoD rather than combining it with Access-a-Ride.



RTD currently has more than 16,000 active Access-a-Ride customers, meaning AoD is
serving a large and growing share of this community.

These numbers clearly demonstrate that AoD is not a fringe service, it is central to the
transportation needs of people with disabilities in Denver.
Concerns About the Proposed Changes


Trip caps of 60/month would force people to choose between medical care, grocery trips,
work, and community engagement. Many of my patients require multiple rides per day.



Increased costs disproportionately impact individuals living on fixed disability incomes.
Even modest fare increases create barriers.



Reduced autonomy puts people with disabilities at a further disadvantage compared to
nondisabled peers, undermining years of progress toward equity and inclusion.

I urge the Board to view AoD not as a transportation expense but as an investment in public
health, equity, and independence. Restricting this service risks higher long-term costs, both
financially and socially, while maintaining it supports healthier, more engaged communities.
Thank you for your consideration of this incredibly important issue.
Sincerely,

Kimi Hashimoto, Ph.D
Rehabilitation Psychology Postdoctoral Fellow

3425 S. Clarkson St.
Englewood, CO 80113
craighospital.org

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Vogel, Laura
RTD Board Office; Chris Gutschenritter
Accessibility on Demand
Monday, September 29, 2025 10:10:08 AM
Letter to RTD - AoD 2025.pdf

This message was sent securely using Zix

Dear RTD Board of Directors,
My name is Laura Vogel and I am a Recreational Therapist at Craig Hospital (District
D). I work daily with individuals who have sustained spinal cord injuries and brain injuries,
often leading to lifelong accessibility needs. For my patients, safe and reliable transportation is
not just a convenience, it is a lifeline to medical care, employment, and community
participation.
I am writing to express my deep concern about the proposed changes to the Access-onDemand (AoD) program. While I understand the financial challenges RTD is facing, I believe
the cuts as currently outlined would create serious barriers to independence, equity, and health
outcomes for people with disabilities.
AoD has been incredibly important for many of my patients. Unlike traditional paratransit, it
offers flexibility and timeliness that align with medical schedules, therapy needs, and social
opportunities. Without it, many individuals would face missed appointments, increased
isolation, and diminished quality of life.
What the Data Shows
AoD has grown from about 6,250 rides/month in 2021 to nearly 62,000 rides/month in 2024,
showing how essential the service has become.
The program now costs about $1 million/month to operate, reflecting high demand.
In June 2024, about 3,200 of RTDs 14,300 paratransit-eligible customers used AoD and 35%
of users rely exclusively on AoD rather than combining it with Access-a-Ride.
RTD currently has more than 16,000 active Access-a-Ride customers, meaning AoD is
serving a large and growing share of this community.

These numbers clearly demonstrate that AoD is not a fringe service, it is central to the
transportation needs of people with disabilities in Denver.
Concerns About the Proposed Changes
Trip caps of 60/month would force people to choose between medical care, grocery trips,
work, and community engagement. Many of my patients require multiple rides per day.
Increased costs disproportionately impact individuals living on fixed disability incomes. Even
modest fare increases create barriers.
Reduced autonomy puts people with disabilities at a further disadvantage compared to
nondisabled peers, undermining years of progress toward equity and inclusion.

I urge the Board to view AoD not as a transportation expense but as an investment in public
health, equity, and independence. Restricting this service risks higher long-term costs, both
financially and socially, while maintaining it supports healthier, more engaged communities.
Thank you for your consideration of this incredibly important issue.

Sincerely,

Laura Vogel
Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist
Laura Vogel, CTRS
Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist

craighospital.org

Confidentiality Note: This e-mail, including any attachment to it, may contain material that is
confidential, proprietary, privileged and/or "Protected Health Information," within the
meaning of the regulations under the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act as
amended. If it is not clear that you are the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that you
have received this transmittal in error, and any review, dissemination, distribution or copying
of this e-mail, including any attachment to it, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this email in error, Do not reply, but contact the sender and delete it from your system.
Confidentiality Note: This e-mail, including any attachment to it, may contain material that is
confidential, proprietary, privileged and/or "Protected Health Information," within the
meaning of the regulations under the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act as
amended. If it is not clear that you are the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that you
have received this transmittal in error, and any review, dissemination, distribution or copying
of this e-mail, including any attachment to it, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this email in error, Do not reply, but contact the sender and delete it from your system.
This message was secured by Zix.

Dear RTD Board of Directors,
My name is Lily Rawnsley and I am the Community Transition Specialist at Craig
Hospital. (District D). I work daily with individuals who have sustained spinal cord injuries and
brain injuries, often leading to lifelong accessibility needs. For my patients, safe and reliable
transportation is not just a convenience, it is a lifeline to medical care, employment, and
community participation.
I am writing to express my deep concern about the proposed changes to the Access-on-Demand
(AoD) program. While I understand the financial challenges RTD is facing, I believe the cuts as
currently outlined would create serious barriers to independence, equity, and health outcomes for
people with disabilities.
AoD has been incredibly important for many of my patients. Unlike traditional paratransit, it
offers flexibility and timeliness that align with medical schedules, therapy needs, and social
opportunities. Without it, many individuals would face missed appointments, increased isolation,
and diminished quality of life.
What the Data Shows


AoD has grown from about 6,250 rides/month in 2021 to nearly 62,000 rides/month in
2024, showing how essential the service has become.



The program now costs about $1 million/month to operate, reflecting high demand.



In June 2024, about 3,200 of RTDs 14,300 paratransit-eligible customers used AoD and
35% of users rely exclusively on AoD rather than combining it with Access-a-Ride.



RTD currently has more than 16,000 active Access-a-Ride customers, meaning AoD is
serving a large and growing share of this community.

These numbers clearly demonstrate that AoD is not a fringe service, it is central to the
transportation needs of people with disabilities in Denver.
Concerns About the Proposed Changes


Trip caps of 60/month would force people to choose between medical care, grocery trips,
work, and community engagement. Many of my patients require multiple rides per day.



Increased costs disproportionately impact individuals living on fixed disability incomes.
Even modest fare increases create barriers.



Reduced autonomy puts people with disabilities at a further disadvantage compared to
nondisabled peers, undermining years of progress toward equity and inclusion.

I urge the Board to view AoD not as a transportation expense but as an investment in public
health, equity, and independence. Restricting this service risks higher long-term costs, both
financially and socially, while maintaining it supports healthier, more engaged communities.
Thank you for your consideration of this incredibly important issue.
Sincerely,

Lily Rawnsley

3425 S. Clarkson St.
Englewood, CO 80113
craighospital.org

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Ty Smith
RTD.Directors; Ty Smith
I"d like to attend the 9/30/25 RTD Board of Directors meeting
Monday, September 29, 2025 3:51:06 PM

Dear Directors of RTD.
My name is Ty Smith I do a lot of policy work and work in the disability Community. I have worked my whole life
very hard to get where I'm at, a full time employee, proud homeowner and a valued subject matter expert in many
board of directors, appointed councils and commissions. I'm now a Benefits Planner and many of my peers would
very much struggle to be able to work and reduce the services they use and contribute less to society. Please I ask you
1. Wholly reject the recommended action of increased costs and reduced services for the AOD program.
2. Engage a third party to conduct a comprehensive Impact Study on the entire service offerings of accessible

transportation.

3. Uphold the intent of the overwhelmingly voter-approved Ballot Measure 7A.

Thank you and I would love to attend tonight's meeting virtually if possible. I'd be willing to testify if there is an
opportunity for that as well.
Ty Smith He/Him/His
Benefits Planner
Atlantis Community, Inc.
atlantiscommunity.org

New Office Hours:
Mon to Thurs: 8:30AM - 5PM Closed for Lunch 12 - 12:30 PM
Closed on Fridays
The contents of this email and any attachments are confidential. It is strictly forbidden
to share any part of this message with any third party, without the written consent of
the sender. If you received this message by mistake, please reply to this message and
follow with its deletion, so that we can ensure such a mistake does not occur in the
future.

Our future is best planned today...we must demand real and
meaningful disability community engagement. Nothing about us
without us!!
Atlantis Community, Inc. is a member of www.onestrongvoice.org

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Ashley Lawless <alawless@uccs.edu>
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 6:45 PM
Board Office
RTD Board Meeting _9/30/25

Good evening,
Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts this evening.
My name is Ashley Lawless and I am an Assistant Teaching Professor at
University of Colorado Colorado Springs. I am fully committed to equity,
inclusion, diversity, and social justice for all.
As you have already heard tonight, many disabled people rely on
Access-on-demand service to access jobs, health care/nursing,
communication services, and education. Ending free/lower fare access
would put our disabled community at an increased risk when
houselessness and disability is already being criminalized.
Accessibility matters! Mobility matters! And is a basic human right!
Expanding coverage and fare relief is of the utmost importance.
Please do not end this free/lower fare access and lets work together to
build bridges over barriers.
Thank you,
Ashley Lawless, MA, ECSE
Assistant Teaching Professor and Faculty Director, Inclusive Early Childhood Education
College of Education
UCCS
alawless@uccs.edu

1

From:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Faith Winter
RTD.Directors
Julien Paulding Bouquet; Ian Harwick; Jack Kroll; JoyAnn Ruscha; Michael Guzman; Chris Gutschenritter; Matt
Larsen; Kathleen Chandler; Patrick O"Keefe; Karen Benker; Vince Buzek; Troy Whitmore; Brett Paglieri;
peggy.caitlin@rtd-denver.com; Lynn Guissinger; RTD Board Office; RTD General Manager; Chris Nicholson
Comments for Proposed Fare Increase on AoD Services 9/30/25
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 2:51:58 PM
RTD Proposed Fare Increase for Access on Demand .pdf

Hello RTD Board Members,
Please see attached for a letter signed by 30 concerned elected officials regarding the proposed
fare increase for access on demand services set to be discussed at the 9/30/2025 board
meeting.
Additionally, several concerned citizens reached out to our offices and wanted to be included
as opposing the fare increases and supporting an independent review of access based services.
I've included their names below:
Martin Becerra-Miranda
Maryann Migliorelli President, National Federation of the Blind Boulder Valley Chapter
Pipi Adams Business Owner (Pipis Place) Denver State Capitol
Donna Casteen Access On Demand User
Andrew J. Rhodes
Mr.Paul Trujillo JR disabled business owner
Jamila Lane Concerned citizen
Sue shusterman Access on demand user
Darlene Calkind Customer service representative
Clayton Jacobs Access on demand user
ElizabethTaurasi
Marlene Kaiser Blind Customer Service Agent
Gail Hamilton patron of Access on demand
Trina Boyd-Pratt Orientation &Mobility Specialist for the Blind/Low Vision
Amanda Morris Mrs
Brent Batron Mr.
Lawrence Nicks
Danielle Paullin Blind customer service agent
Paul Trujillo JR blind business owner
Dishon Spears Older Blind Specialist with the Colorado Center for the Blind CCB
Nicks Allison
Stefanie Parris Older Blind Specialist
KIJUANA Chambers a blind stroke survivor who has used his service for over 15 years.
Yasmin Diaz Mendias Concerned Citizen

Thank you,
--

Office of Senator Faith Winter | Senate District 25 | State Senator
200 E. Colfax Room 356 | Denver, CO 80203 | 303-866-4863

GENERAL ASSEMBLY
STATE OF COLORADO
State Capitol
Denver, 80203

To:RTD Board of Directors
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Cc: Debra Johnson, RTD CEO
Michael Davies, RTD Government Relations Officer
September 30, 2025
Re: RTD Proposed Fare Increase for Access on Demand
As Legislators with an interest in a Regional Transportation District (RTD) that serves the
community and is transparent in governance and reliable in service we are disappointed in the
recently proposed change to Access on Demand (AoD)s costs and coverages for people with
disabilities.
The proposed fair will change from $0.00 to $6.50, and the ride subsidy will decrease from
$25.00 to $20.00. It will also dramatically reduce hours, making it impossible for some people to
get home after work (or to work for those on the night shift). This service provides people who
cannot drive or get into private cars without a wheelchair lift the ability to get around. It is not a
luxury, but a lifeline for our community. Thousands of Coloradans depend upon this service to
get to work, medical appointments, and for things like grocery shopping. Having a 650%
increase for this community is going to create a devastating impact. In addition there were
unprecedented cuts during the pandemic that have not been restored leaving thousands of rides
solely dependent on Access a Rides. People are going to have to quit jobs, miss appointments,
and choose between eating and getting to a needed meeting.
We respectfully request the elected Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District to
wholly reject the recommended action for Access on Demand at your September 30th Board
Meeting. We believe that targeting one class of people, principally our disability community is
reckless, irresponsible and immoral. Coloradans with disabilities deserve better.

GENERAL ASSEMBLY
STATE OF COLORADO
State Capitol
Denver, 80203

In addition, We strongly encourage the RTD Board of Directors to direct GM/CEO Debra
Johnson to engage a third party to conduct a comprehensive Impact Study on the entire
service offerings of accessible transportation, i.e., Paratransit (AaR), WAV, AOD, Flex
Ride to include alongside a representative panel of subject matter experts we refer to as
consumers with disabilities. The panel of consumers with disabilities should be selected
prior to any engagement with a third party, ensuring maximum community engagement.
In addition, we strongly believe that the Access on Demand and WAV services should
include multiple stops, no geographic limitations,and time restrictions.
Please honor the promises of the 7A Campaign and expand services for the Disability
Community not single out people with disabilities for cuts and fare increases.

Signed,

Senator Faith Winter, SD25, Chair Transportation and Energy Committee
Senator Lisa Cutter, SD20 Vice Chair, Transportation and Energy Committee
Representative Meg Froelich, HD3, Chair Transportation, Housing and Local Govt Committee
Representative Rebekah Stewart, HD30, Vice Chair, Transportation, Housing and Local Govt
Committee
Senator Tom Sullivan, SD27
Senator Chris Kolker, SD16
Senator Dafna Michaelson Jenet, SD21
Senator Mike Weissman, SD28
Senator Cathy Kipp, SD14
Representative Jamie Jackson, HD41
Representative Emily Sirota, HD9

GENERAL ASSEMBLY
STATE OF COLORADO

Representative Sheila Lieder, HD28

State Capitol
Denver, 80203

Representative Elizabeth Velasco, HD57
Representative Tammy Story, HD25
Representative Jennifer Bacon, HD7
Representative Chad Clifford, HD37
Representative Lorena Garcia, HD35
Representative Jacque Phillips, HD31
Representative Javier Mabrey, HD1
Representative Brianna Titone, HD27
Representative Michael Carter, HD36
Representative Karen McCormick, HD11
Representative Lesley Smith, HD49
Representative Gretchen Rydin, HD38
Representative Lesley Smith, HD49
Representative Mandy Lindsey, HD42
Representative Naquetta Ricks, HD40
Rhonda Fields, Arapahoe County Commissioner,District 5
Chris Hinds, Denver City Councilmember, District 10
Mayor Guyleen Castriotta, City and County of Broomfield

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Gates, Gabriel
RTD.Directors
RTD Board of Directors Meeting on 09-30-25 Concerning AOD
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 3:23:21 PM
image001.png

Dear Board of DirectorsI hope this email finds you well. Thank you for taking the time to read my email concerning AOD. My
statement/ask is short, and that is, please make the right decision. As a director my self, I know the
challenges associated with determining a decision that rests on shortfalls. But at the end of the day,
the decision that is in the best interest of the people that I serve is always the right one. Everything
always falls into place once people realize that leadership is broadly defined on lifting our
communities upputting others before us.
Sincerely,

Gabriel Gates, Ed.D. candidate
Director
Disability Support Services
Front Range Community College
3645 W. 112th Ave.
Westminster, CO 80031
Disability Support Services Website

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, September 30th, 2025
September 30th, 2025
Julian Bouquet, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Bouquet,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) writes regarding the following three topics:
Access-on-Demand Program Modifications
GDT urges the RTD Board to vote No on the proposed Access-on-Demand (AoD) program modifications that
single out disabled riders for cuts before RTD considers cuts for any other group of riders.
First, a Yes vote would be a mistake on equity terms, harming riders with disabilities. After listening
very carefully to disability rights advocates and the numerous public comments made to RTD on the matter, we
are convinced that the fare increases will be financially onerous for many riders who do not qualify for the LiVe
program but whose disabilities prevent them from using many of RTDs fixed-route services. Previous iterations
of this Board have affirmed that $88 is a reasonable price for a month of transportation. To charge members of
the disabled community significantly more, plausibly 3 times more, for their transportation is not just
unequitable, it borders on punitive. These changes would have an immediate and ugly negative impact on
disabled riders that can be avoided.
Second, a Yes vote would also be a financial stewardship mistake. RTD Management has not
demonstrated adequate due diligence in reviewing and presenting on recommendations around the full
Paratransit offering. RTD Managements Paratransit Review was slanted to cut AoD from the beginning, while
simultaneously not presenting an in-depth evaluation of the outmoded and far more costly Access-a-Ride
(AaR) service. AaR costs a fixed $106 per rider versus AoD costing RTD $16-$22 per rider on average.
Without a fair and complete analysis of all of RTD's paratransit services, it is not possible to plan for the
long-term financial sustainability of these services. An impact study is still needed to properly understand the
various needs of disabled riders across the District in order to refine a consolidated Paratransit offering that is
attractive, flexible, and financially sustainable.
RTDs current branding of AoD as a supplemental premium service is dishonest, and was deliberately
fabricated to avoid the Federal regulations that paratransit services are subject to. AoD was created to
enhance RTDs paratransit offering, and in so many ways, it is more efficiently meeting the needs for a cohort
of the Disabled Community. We remain highly skeptical of RTDs modeling that forecasts incredible, almost
exponential growth in demand for AoD despite AoD serving an inherently finite group of riders. The modeling
appears highly skewed by the easily-explicable historic jump from when AoD went from being a
geographically-limited pilot to a district-wide service; a jump that is implausible to be repeated.
We implore this Board to assert its powers of oversight and vote No on this motion.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

RTD Advertising Policy - Window Wrap Ban
GDT urges the RTD Board to consider a very low cost change that will materially improve the experience for
nearly all RTD riders: removing advertising and promotional wraps from the windows of transit vehicles. The
case for prohibiting advertising, promotional, or branded wraps on RTD vehicle windows rests on three primary
considerations: (1) immaterial financial impact, (2) addressing diminished rider experience, and (3)
comparative equity.
Advertising revenues as a whole have never constituted a meaningful portion of RTDs operating budget. In
2024, the agency collected an immaterial $50K in total advertising revenues (Source: Annual Comprehensive
Financial Report; Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, page 121) against a $1.1B budget. Even at
historical highs prior to the pandemic, advertising of all kinds (print display, digital display, and web) has not
exceeded $4.5M annually since 2014. Within that figure, the incremental contribution attributable to window
wraps has been estimated to be in the low $100Ks (Source: Attachment C - New On-Vehicle Advertising
Opportunities - Train Wrap Pilot_9_20_2011, Page 1) - insufficient to warrant policy trade-offs in the present
operating environment.
The negative effects on the rider experience, by contrast, are clear and well-documented by riders. Window
wraps obstruct visibility in most lighting conditions, impairing orientation for all riders and creating significant
barriers for the visually impaired. Riders prone to motion sickness also report exacerbated discomfort due to
the distorted view.
These conditions undermine the basic quality of service and contribute to an inequitable divide: while
automobile users enjoy unobstructed views, transit riders are asked to tolerate inferior conditions for negligible
financial gain. Our surveys reinforce this point, with an 84% overwhelming majority of over 300 respondents
indicating that window advertisements degrade their experience.
RTD is already lagging its peers in addressing this issue. In the last year, agencies in St. Louis and
Albuquerque have joined many coastal peers in eliminating vehicle wraps altogether, recognizing that the
public value of clear, accessible transit vehicles outweighs marginal advertising revenue. A policy to prohibit
wraps at least on windows would align RTD with evolving best practices, while imposing no material financial
burden on the agency. In sum, the change would deliver a meaningful improvement in rider satisfaction and
accessibility at immaterial cost - a clear instance where the benefits substantially outweigh the trade-offs.
Finishing FasTracks Report - An Unacceptable Document
GDT urges the RTD Board to reject outright the slanted and potentially politically-motivated information in the
2025 Finishing FasTracks Report. As a reminder, this report was compelled by state legislation in SB24-230
and amended in SB25-161. Not only was headline information presented in a highly dishonest manner, such
as reporting annual costs next to daily ridership projections (a practice that would be flunked in a serious
academic setting), the vanishingly limited new insights from RTD barely extend beyond adjusting
already-published figures for inflation, a task well within the abilities of the public.
The report, as-written, fails to build a comprehensible picture of a solution. The public should expect an
actionable plan - including priority and order-of-operations by project - that clearly highlights RTDs financial
and managerial capabilities and identifies specific funding gaps that must be filled from new funding sources
(including additional support from the State of Colorado). The report language instills doubt that RTD believes
www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

these projects to be worthwhile. The ridership modeling, as presented, should be backed up with more detailed
methodology information. For example, the idea that extending the L Line from its present neighborhood
terminus at 30th & Downing Station to a highly-utilized A Line Station at 38th & Blake would only be creating
300 new riders/day by 2045 lacks plausibility and/or depends on project outcomes that fail to create more
competitive A Line connections than are currently provided by todays route 38 and 43 buses. This also ignores
the potential to reconnect the L into a regional and far more useful light rail service, like the D or H Line, or
potentially to interline with the W if a basic pair of wye junctions could be built under the Auraria Pkwy viaduct.
Many measures can be taken to increase ridership on the L Line, with value that could be compounded by the
A Line which appears to be completely unexplored by RTD.
GDT questions the influence of internal politics and external pressures that would seek to undermine or
obfuscate RTDs responsibility in completing FasTracks, and requests that the public be furnished more
detailed information backing up the current cost and ridership estimates.
RTD must find a way to complete FasTracks, which was approved by voters over 20 years ago and has been
supported by taxpayers ever since. The State of Colorado has emerged as a willing partner, and created new
funding sources for the Northwest Rail corridor and the N Line that RTD should enthusiastically leverage. Other
projects like the Central Extension for the L Line still need a partner, and we hope the City of Denver will
emerge as such a partner when their funding conditions improve. If further funding is needed, RTD should
exercise all creative effort to raise funds under its own authority, and if shortfalls remain, RTD should go back
to the voters for either more resources or a new direction. Trust will not be restored in the agency until RTD
delivers on these promises.
Thanks for all you do,


James Flattum




Emma Griffin 


Robert Bryan 
CC:













June Churchill













Saigopal Rangaraj













Keith Brooks 

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO
Angel Pea, RTD Deputy CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Luke Fish
RTD.Directors; Michael Guzman; Chris Gutschenritter
RTD Access on Demand
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 4:25:06 PM

Hello Mr. Guzman, Mr. Gutschenritter, & overall RTD BoardI'm Luke Fish, a current resident of RTD District C, and a previous resident of multiple
locations around District D. In all the places around Denver that I've lived, RTD services have
been extremely valuable to me.
My current utility, however, isn't my primary concern. Instead, I'm more concerned about the
needs of my disabled friends, family, and neighbors all across Denver. I'm writing to both
wholly reject the currently-discussed actions to reduce services for the Access on Demand
(AOD) services that RTD provides, as well as to implore you to uphold the incredible
intentions of the overwhelmingly voter-approved Ballot Measure 7A.
I have a somewhat unique perspective on this issue myself. On top of being an employee in
the Environmental Health & Safety industry, I am also an actor in Denver's vibrant theatre
scene. I recently performed in Phamaly Theatre Company's 25th Annual Putnam County
Spelling Bee with multiple actors who are unable to drive due to their disabilities for various
reasons. Without the services RTD's AOD program provides, the show wouldn't have been
able to bring the joy it did to Northglenn's Parsons Theatre.
Because of my involvement in organizations like this, I see firsthand the devastation that
decreased mobility can bring to disabled members of our society. From them facing increased
difficulty in activities like getting groceries, engaging in hobbies, and otherwise living
fulfilling lives, it is damaging. However, the joy and happiness I see on the thousands of
attendees of Phamaly shows each year is something that has the danger of being removed,
particularly if the service area is lessened or the program becomes financially unviable for the
individuals it serves.
Please, do not reduce the services that Access on Demand provides. I understand why fare
hikes might be necessary, and hopefully will be created in conversation with the community it
affects, but I implore you to be careful when making a decision that allows you to choose who
in the community you do not serve.
I wish you all the best.
Yours in Solidarity,
Luke Fish

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Renee Boyes Walbert
RTD.Directors
AOD
Monday, September 29, 2025 9:34:45 AM

My daughter in Aurora relies on AOD to get to work and medical appointments. Shes not
currently in the AAR zone. Without AOD she might lose her job
I request the following:
1Wholly reject the recommended action of increased costs and reduced services
for the AOD program.
2Engage a third party to conduct a comprehensive Impact Study on the entire
service offerings of accessible transportation.
3Uphold the intent of the overwhelmingly voter-approved Ballot Measure 7A.

ReneeWalbert
Mom and Advocate
Nothing worth having comes without some kind of fight. You got to kick at the darkness till
it bleeds daylight  Bruce Cockburn

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Vicki Krieger
RTD.Directors
No reductions to Access on Demand
Tuesday, September 30, 2025 1:27:40 PM

Dear Directors,
I have two adult children who rely on Access on Demand to get to/from work and other
community events.
Access on Demand is essential for them to get to/from work and be productive members of
society.
My eldest daughter's short Uber drive currently costs her $10 each way - even with the current
subsidy.
The increase that you are proposing and the reduction in the amount you will pay will double
her cost. It would cost her $40 to get her to and from work.
She would have to work 3 hours, out of her 4 hour shift, just to cover the cost of
transportation.
This is an unreasonable demand to place on those who are least capable of affording it.
Please do not implement these detrimental cuts.
Thank you,
Vicki Krieger
mother of 2 adult children with disabilities

