Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, July 7, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Director Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 7:46 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

7:46 PM
7:44 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

7:47 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

7:49 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

7:46 PM
7:46 PM
7:45 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

7:44 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

7:45 PM
7:45 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Committee Chair

Present
Present

7:45 PM
7:39 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

7:41 PM

Chair Sisk and Director Deadwyler were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Gemechisa Ayana, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps,
Norene Curran, Nate Diaz, Lisa Dorrance, Terry Emmons, Nataly
Erving, Eric Farrington, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bob
Grado, Chris Harmon, Cheryl Holmes, Tina Jacquez, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Tony
McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Edin Memic, David Menter, Vivian
Morales, Brendan Morgan, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters,
Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Kevin
Steele, James Sutton, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Katrina Avellano, Josh Benninghoff, George Gerstle, Bob Kinney,
David Krutsinger, Mike Meader, Tom Peterson, Pedro Ramos, Susan
Spry, Joe Triplett, Dee Wisor

B. Recommended Actions

• Resolution No. _________, Series of 2015 Related to the Issuance of
Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District
Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager for Finance and Administration, explained that the
Resolution provides for financing of up to $230,000,000 for
vehicles and related equipment as anticipated to be financed in
the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). The vehicles included in this
financing are 40’ transit buses, 60’ articulated buses, ADA
cutaway vans, mall shuttles, and light rail vehicles. The Board
is being asked, through the Resolution, to authorize the
issuance, to establish the parameters and to approve
agreements required in connection with the issuance of the
certificates. She noted that the certificates will be

underwritten by a team including Wells Fargo, Stifel Nicolaus,
Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, US Bancorp, and Harvestons
Securities.
Director Hoy wanted to confirm that the process described by
Heather Copp is the same process used for prior Certificates of
Participation (CoP). Heather Copp confirmed that it was the
same process.
Director Solano expressed his concern about manufacturers
listed as “to be determined” for the mall shuttles given the
past history of the previous vendor not being fiscally viable
and the uniqueness of the vehicle needed for the mall.
Heather Copp replied even though the manufacturer for the
mall shuttles is listed as to be determined on the Board Report,
staff is currently reviewing two proposals and will be ready to
present a recommendation to the Board during the August
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting.
Director Folska wondered what exactly is the difference
between a CoP for rolling stock and for the North Metro rail
line. Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager for Debt and
Investment explained that the CoPs are used as a financial
source for construction.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 3]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

• Authorization to Amend Contract with NewPush for Expansion of Smart
Media Technology Hosting Service
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee
to amend the contract with NewPush to expand Smart Media Technology
(SMT) hosting services to increase the contract not-to-exceed amount by an
additional $1,440,000 to a total contract value of $1,729,500 and extend
the period of performance for the current and additional services for three
additional optional years. The additional services are needed for SMT stored
value system security and high availability. Of the $1,440,000 contract

value, the Board of Directors approved $500,000 for these hosting services
in March 2015 along with other SMT items. The remaining $940,000
equates to $333,333 per year for the remaining three years of the contract
that will be funded in the 2016-2021 operating budget.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager for Finance and Administration, explained that staff
considered the pros and cons of three options: RTD hosting,
Xerox hosting, and Third-Party hosting by NewPush. After
reviewing the options, staff concluded that an RTD hosted
system would be too expensive and out of the agency’s
scope. Staff also concluded that a Xerox hosted system
would be too expensive without providing the desired level of
service. NewPush is the current host of the SMT websites
and banking servers under an existing contract that is
proposed for expansion by this Board action. Staff
understands that NewPush has hosting expertise but not
expertise for SMT applications. RTD will be responsible for
managing applications and Xerox will be required to assist in
the migration.
Director Bagley noted that it is critical to move this action
forward. He added that by the time this action is approved it
will be July 28th and this system needs to be ready by January
1st, 2016.
Director Lasater said he was a little perplexed by some of the
comments during the presentation. He shared that his
personal business provides hosting services in a secure,
Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliant environment. He
wonders why RTD cannot do the same without such an
expensive price tag. He added that a hosting service just
makes sure that the data is there and if one of the hard drives
goes down another one is there for support. He asked if the
hosting would be a cloud based system and for a justification
on the price tag. Eric Farrington, Information Technology
Program Manager, explained that the total extension price of
$1,440,000 is for four (4) years total. He added that RTD
does not have a PCI compliant system, staffing, or the cooling
and electrical capacity required at the data center to do this in

house. He noted that the cost of RTD hosting this system
would be much higher than using NewPush. Director Lasater
wondered if Xerox is supposedly building a well-designed
system why RTD could not train current staff to maintain it
avodiding $400,000 hosting charge. He said his company,
which is significantly smaller, maintains its own hardware. He
shared his concerns regarding the IT Department’s inefficiency
on this matter. Heather Copp pointed out that the Colorado
Department of Revenue, where she worked for almost four (4)
years as the Deputy Executive Director, outsourced this type
of service and that the annual $333,333 for the last three
years of the extension on this contract is considered a bargain
in the industry.
Director Francone asked if there was a hosting fee already
included in the Xerox contract. She wanted to make sure that
RTD will not be paying twice for the same service. Eric
Farrington replied that there was some money included in the
contract for this item; however, the contract does not include
the extent of service needed: production, test, and disaster
recovery. Verbal conversations with Xerox indicated an
estimate twice the price of NewPush. Eric Farrington
concluded that Xerox has not been paid for this part of the
contract, nor would they.
Director Solano shared his concerns about IT infrastructure
and security. He mentioned the recent Car-to-Go breach of
security which resulted in a deadly drive by shooting. He
wondered how spending money on extending this contract
would increase RTD security. He questioned how this
contract would protect RTD in the case of a possible
partnership between RTD and Car-to-Go when dealing with
first/last mile issues. Eric Farrington replied that NewPush
would have a PCI system, firewalls, and other security
measures. He noted that security is increased by having the
information hosted by a third party and not RTD. The third
party will be subject to external PCI compliance audits. He
pointed out that no system is bullet proof; however, the
proposed system would provide for better security than if it
were hosted internally.
Director Folska asked what migration entails. Eric Farrington
replied that the cost of migration includes the first year of
hosting, which will expire on February, 2014. The migration
consists of moving the currently RTD hosted services
(EcoPass, CollegePass, Neighborhood Pass) from the RTD

servers and system to the NewPush system. Director Folska
wondered if everything would be integrated by the time we go
live on January, 2016. Eric Farrington said that everything
will work together: bus readers, handheld readers, light rail
platforms, etc. Director Folska asked if there would be a beta
testing period. She also wondered if there would be any
penalties on NewPush for failure to deliver. Eric Farrington
answered that the beta testing will happen this fall. He said
that staff is currently working on the NewPush scope of work
and could add penalties for failure to deliver to the document.
Committee Chair Tobiassen shared his experience on the E470 Board. That entity processes millions of transactions a
year through credit cards and web portals. They have about a
dozen operators handling calls yet they do not process
anything in house. Last year E-470 underwent a PCI audit to
ensure that no customer center call operators were writing
down anyone’s personal information. He said that if E-470,
and in this case, RTD, does not have that information we are
not vulnerable to leaking it to the world. He pointed out that
the $333,000 a year for this kind of infrastructure and
security system seems like a bargain.
Director Bagley thanked Committee Chair Tobiassen for his
comments.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Technical Update on Drug & Alcohol Policy (Copp, Memic)
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager for
Finance & Administration, introduced Edin Memic, Manager for Substance
Abuse and Office Services. Heather Copp noted that the last Drug and
Alcohol Policy update was approved in 2013. In an effort to maintain
compliance with the Department of Transportation and Federal Transit
Administration rules and regulations, RTD made the changes to the Drug and
Alcohol Policy as included in the Financial Administration and Audit

Committee agenda packet for July 7, 2015. All changes are technical and
regulatory in nature and do not affect negotiated terms with ATU 1001.
There was no further discussion on this update.

• First Quarter 2015 Performance Measures
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager for
Finance & Administration, introduced Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager for
Budget and Financial Analysis. Heather Copp explained that of the 23
measures tracked 19 goals were met. The four exceptions were:
 System-wide on-time performance
 Level of customer complaints
 ADA on-time performance
 Bus operator/mechanic headcount authorization.
She referred the Directors to the Board Report included in the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee agenda packet for July 7, 2015 for a
full explanation of the four exceptions and a full listing of all the measures.
There was no further discussion on this update.

• Enterprise Content Management Update
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Assistant General Manager
for Finance & Administration, introduced Susan Cohen, Senior Manager for
Finance and Enterprise Content Management. Susan Cohen reviewed the
Enterprise Content Management (ECM) presentation as included in the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee agenda packet for July 7,
2015. The presentation included an ECM Project Overview, Background,
Assessment Results, Project Benefits, Financial Considerations, Project
Scope, Owners Representative, Project Cost, and Project Schedule.
Director Anderson thinks that an ECM system is a good idea given the
amount of documents generated at RTD. She recalled her experience in one
of her first jobs when a document got lost and it was not clear where the
repository was. She thanked staff for the presentation.
Director Folska found the presentation fascinating. She thinks it is exciting
to improve efficiency and productivity while reducing costs. She noted that
information and technology are a huge component of the Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP) and that $10 million for the initial implementation of an ECM
system for an agency like RTD seems more than reasonable.
Director Folska wondered if the RouteMatch software used by paratransit
costumers could be a bit more intelligent and recognize landmarks. Heather
Copp replied that Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations,
would have more information on that software. She added that the ECM
update being presented to the Board has to do with documents and paper

files being archived in one repository with a consistent naming conversion,
not specific applications used by RTD.
Director Lubow shared her experience working in large bureaucracies for
long periods of time and her understanding of the frustration caused by lost
documents; however, she feels that spending $15 million on improving
documentations seems like a lot of money. She added that she does not
work in that specific field, so she may not be aware of the real costs.
Director Solano expressed his reservations over the dollar amount. He
recalled his experience working in the Telecom industry and from his
experience these numbers are huge. He asked what kind of system would
serve as back up. Heather Copp replied that the scope of work will include
a disaster recovery system as well as meet functional and business
requirements. She added that the current estimate assumes in house
hosting for documents and outside hosting for disaster recovery. Staff does
not have specific details on any package. Director Solano commented that it
is important to know the backup costs before moving forward. He shared
that in the Telecom industry if a system goes down without a backup the
loss would be in the millions range, and for RTD that would mean accidents
if it involves buses or trains. Heather Copp answered that the only
applications that will be hosted through this project are the document
management applications: everything that is stored on laptops, hard drives,
file cabinets, etc. The goal of this project is to store all documents in one
repository where everyone could have access to them. She shared that
during her time as the CFO of the Southern California Association of
Governments, the document management system used there forced users to
save documents in a specific place utilizing a specific naming convention,
authorizing access and restrictions, etc. Susan Cohen added that FasTracks
currently utilizes Aconex as its document management system. They have
back up servers in 3 continents with 24/7 support, something that RTD
could not provide in house. Heather Copp reiterated that the $12.9 million
figure includes disaster recovery. Marla Lien, General Counsel, pointed out
that this is not a new project or funding matter. She added that RTD is
mandated by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to have a document
management system.
Director Francone asked if the hosting will be in-house at RTD or not.
Heather Copp replied that the funding estimate is based on in house funding;
however, staff will not have those facts until the Request for Proposal (RFP)
process.
Director Lasater wondered what will be used as the technology and
hardware for the project. Susan Cohen replied that part would be
determined in the evaluation process. Director Lasater expressed his desire
to have that information as staff gets closer to that part of the project. He

recalled the big debate when E-470 was going through a similar process. He
shared that at that time he was more in favor of a hard drive. With newer
technology, he recommends a better media back up process, similar to a
memory stick. He added that redundancy is critical when it comes to
disaster recovery.
Director Hoy said that he would be interested in future information on the
cost versus savings of the ECM project. He added that this type of estimate
is based on elusive dollars. He referred to Marla Lien’s earlier comments and
asked if the $12 million dollars are spread out through the SBP. Susan
Cohen replied in the affirmative, reiterating that $10.3 million is the estimate
for the initial implementation and $2.6 million for ongoing maintenance.
Director Hoy wondered if RTD would end up spending more money once the
system is implemented. Heather Copp replied that staff will take a look at
those estimates.
Director Walker thanked staff for the work. He recalled a time in his career
when he spent a lot of time looking for referenced documents and how
those costs add up quickly.
Director James thought that it was a great presentation. He referred to
Director Hoy’s comment and suggested staff put together a document that
would address incremental costs and net financial gain at a macro level as it
relates to ECM. Heather Copp said that staff will create a document
addressing this matter.
Director Bagley encouraged staff to include a chart in the September ECM
presentation in order to make it easy to read and understand.
Committee Chair Tobiassen shared that he worked for records retention in
the Internal Revenue System (IRS). A few years ago, by mandate of Federal
law, the IRS had to release 50 years’ worth of documents. He said that the
struggle was with the hard copies. He noted that this type of project will
have to be done sooner or later and that in the long run it will save a lot of
money by consolidating the storage location.

• May 2015 Monthly Financials Status Report
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Assistant General Manager
for Finance & Administration, introduced Doug MacLeod, Controller. He
reviewed the May 2015 Monthly Financials Status Report as included in the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee agenda packet for July 7,
2015. He handed out an updated Sales and Tax Use chart as the one
included in the packet was based on estimated values. He noted that all
items, Sales and Use Tax, Ridership, and Fare Revenue, were lower than
budgeted. He added that May, 2015 had one less business day than May,
2014, which may contributed to the final numbers.

Director Folska wondered how the Meet in the Street events, spread out
through 5 Sundays during the summer, impact the rest of our system as the
Free Mall Ride shuts down during the event. Heather Copp replied that
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, said his staff
would provide that data.
Director Bagley pointed out that the Meet in the Street events are on
Sundays, while the Mall Shuttle ridership is predominately during the weekly
commute. He expressed his concern over the May 2015 Monthly Financials
Status Report. He encouraged staff and the Board to keep an eye on the
report during the next few months as this would give a fuller picture.
Director Bagley added that the Sales and Use Tax is a critical component of
the budget. He encouraged the Directors to be very thoughtful as the next
reports become available.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley provided a brief update on the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee meeting earlier that afternoon. He
recognized Directors Anderson, Francone, Hoy, Menten, and Walker as members of
the committee. The committee met two weeks ago and asked David Genova,
Interim General Manager, to make minor modifications to the tactical plans for the
specific categories identified at the March 21 Joint Staff/Board Advance, which
include fiscal sustainability, technology, and 2016 openings. During today’s
meeting the committee approved the modifications presented. Paula Perdue,
Executive Director of the Board Office, will prepare a report that will be distributed
to the Directors for review. He reminded the Board that these plans have
implications on the Strategic Budget Plan and the 2016 Budget. Director Bagley
thanked the committee members for their work.
Director Solano thanked the Directors for the flowers sent to his mother’s house
honoring the passing of his father. Committee Chair Tobiassen offered Director
Solano condolences on behalf of the Board.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 11, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:53 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

