Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Bobby Dishell, District D
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Michael Guzman, District C
Ian Harwick, District L

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Troy Whitmore, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, September 21, 2023
REMOTE MEETING
12:00 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 872 5378 4167#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Lynn Guissinger
I.

Call to Order

II.

Public Comment

III.

Recommended Action
A.

Pass-through Carbon Reduction Grant

For the Board of Directors to authorize an expense appropriation to effectuate a
pass-through grant from the State of Colorado to the City and County of Denver

(CCD) in the amount of $5,000,000 for the Colfax Avenue Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
project.
B.
Public Opinion Polling Consultant Summary Scope of Work Approval and
Contract Authorization
For the Board of Directors to approve the summary scope of work for a solicitation,
and to subsequently authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) to enter
into a contract, for consulting services for strategic advice, development of a
survey instrument, and public opinion polling related to revenue diversification and
RTD finances.
IV.

September Board Meeting Agenda Review

V.

Discussion Items
•

Monthly Government Relations Report – September 2023

•

2024 Draft Legislative and Government Relations Program

•

Proposed Bylaw Amendment to Set a Time Limit on Board Meetings

•

Board Expense Policy Update

•

Executive Session Zoom Recording Access

VI.

Other Matters

VII.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - September 26, 2023
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Land Acknowledgement

IV.

Statement of Employee Appreciation

V.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

VI.

Retiree Awards
•
•
•
•
•

Craig H. Emmert – Manager Technical Training – 29 Years
Johnny Flannagan — CAD Operator — 21 Years
Leroy LeFebre – Bus Operator – 44 Years
Jim Rhodes – Construction Engineer IV – 34 Years
Henry John Stopplecamp – AGM Capital Programs – 23 Years

VII.

Public Participation

VIII.

External Entities Reports

IX.

Executive Session
Pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(c), C.R.S., for matters required to be kept confidential
by federal or state law or rules and regulations, and §§ 2-3-103(2) and (3) and 2-3103.7(1), C.R.S., regarding an update from the Office of the State Auditor on
progress of the ongoing 2023-2024 Performance Audit.

X.

Audit Committee Report

XI.

Finance and Planning Committee Report

XII.

Operations and Safety Committee Report

XIII.

Performance Committee Report

XIV.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports

XV.

Chair's Report

XVI.

General Manager's Report

XVII. Unanimous Consent
A.

GM/CEO Compensation Philosophy

For the Board of Directors to approve the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO)
Compensation Philosophy.
B.

2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP)

For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP).
C.

September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions

For the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the Customer Code of Conduct.
D.

Pass-through Carbon Reduction Grant

For the Board of Directors to authorize an expense appropriation to effectuate a
pass-through grant from the State of Colorado to the City and County of Denver
(CCD) in the amount of $5,000,000 for the Colfax Avenue Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
project.
E.
Public Opinion Polling Consultant Summary Scope of Work Approval and
Contract Authorization
For the Board of Directors to approve the summary scope of work for a solicitation,
and to subsequently authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) to enter

into a contract, for consulting services for strategic advice, development of a
survey instrument, and public opinion polling related to revenue diversification and
RTD finances.
XVIII. Recommended Action
XIX.

Report of Director Activities

XX.

Other Matters

XXI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.3.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Pass-through Carbon Reduction Grant

September 12, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
September 26, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize an expense appropriation to effectuate a pass-through grant from
the State of Colorado to the City and County of Denver (CCD) in the amount of $5,000,000 for the
Colfax Avenue Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Brian Welch, Acting Assistant General Manager, Planning
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
CCD is making several enhancements to sections of the Colfax Avenue corridor, including infrastructure
improvements related to providing BRT services from RTD along the Colfax route. A portion of the
Colfax Avenue enhancement funding is being provided from a grant through the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) related to carbon reduction.
RTD has agreed to be the qualifying direct recipient for these grant funds and to pass them through to
CCD to fund and implement the Colfax Avenue enhancements.
DISCUSSION
RTD has internal budgetary controls in place requiring Board-appropriated funding for expenditures. In
order for RTD to receive and then expend these federal funds, thereby passing them through to CCD, an
appropriation must first be authorized.
RTD will record an equal amount of grant revenue and grant expense for the activity associated with this
pass-through grant activity.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact to RTD from this recommended action aside from minor ongoing costs
associated with internal grant administration functions.

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.3.1

Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.3.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
Public Opinion Polling Consultant Summary Scope of Work
Approval and Contract Authorization

September 21, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
September 26, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to approve the summary scope of work for a solicitation, and to subsequently
authorize the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) to enter into a contract, for consulting services for
strategic advice, development of a survey instrument, and public opinion polling related to revenue
diversification and RTD finances.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
In 1992, Colorado voters approved an amendment to Article X of the Colorado Constitution known as
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR). TABOR includes governmental annual revenue growth limitations to
which RTD’s 0.6% sales and use tax revenue will be subject after 2024.
During the May 9, 2023, Finance and Planning Committee meeting, a Board Discussion Item was
presented by Director Davidson and the Chief Financial Officer, titled "Board Retreat Summary." This
Discussion Item provided additional information regarding one of the goals emerging from the March 25,
2023, Board Retreat, which was to seek to shore up RTD’s financial position and outlook with a policy
goal to create a long-term, sustainable, and resilient funding model.
During the September 12, 2023, Finance and Planning Committee meeting, staff provided additional
information to the Board regarding a Revenue Diversification Working Group (working group) that will
advise the Finance and Planning Committee and the Board. Participants in the working group, who have
been identified due to their relevant subject-matter expertise, in addition to Director Davidson in his
capacity as Vice Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee who will serve as the liaison to the Board,
include the General Manager and CEO, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Government Relations
Officer and Senior Manager of Debt and Investments.
The working group and the Finance and Planning Committee will consider available options and develop
recommendations for the Board to consider in the coming months to create a sustainable and resilient
funding model in alignment with the agency's Strategic Priority of Financial Success.

Packet Pg. 7

1.3.2

A critical step to decision making and understanding a viable path forward to address potential TABOR
impacts and alternative revenue sources is having reliable information on public opinion and willingness
to support a potential ballot measure.
DISCUSSION
If approved, staff will prepare a solicitation seeking consulting services to accomplish several tasks
related to assessing opinions of registered voters and their likelihood of support for a potential ballot
measure to avert negative financial impacts and/or approve additional revenue sources. This proposed
work is exploratory, and no decisions have been made on what, if any, funding avenues to pursue,
including whether to submit a ballot question to registered voters in a future election.
SCOPE OF WORK SUMMARY
The selected consultant will:
• Develop and recommend an overall strategy and timeline for completing the desired polling
• Identify potential solutions to address financial challenges
• Suggest solutions for potential additional revenue that could be used to fulfill community needs
related to public transportation
• Develop a methodology and polling instrument to capture a statistically valid sampling of
registered voters within the District
• Conduct public opinion polling of possible solutions, including polling on specific language for any
recommended potential ballot questions to be considered
• Produce a report detailing the findings and offering recommendations for Board consideration
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The unrestricted fund account will be utilized to fund this initiative.

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 8

1.3.2

Packet Pg. 9

1.5.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Monthly Government Relations Report – September 2023

September 21, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to the Board-adopted 2023 Legislative Program, the agency developed a Legislative Program
that serves as a guiding document for staff to pursue goals related to legislative and policy matters. A
Legislative Program serves as a living document that can be adjusted throughout a legislative session to
provide an avenue for Board adopted policy positions to be communicated and pursued by agency staff.
In line with the agency’s mission and vision established in the Strategic Plan, the development and
inclusion of the goals and actions contained in the Legislative Program are designed to make lives better
through connections.
It is important that RTD serve as a trusted partner to the region’s local, state, and federal elected
officials. To achieve these goals, RTD must be proactive in educating and informing the District’s elected
officials of the challenges and opportunities available to advance shared goals.
In furtherance of the program, the agency’s Government Relations Officer coordinates and develops
strategic communications to advance the agency’s legislative priorities and serve as a point of contact
for elected officials in the Denver metro region.
DISCUSSION
Included herein are notable government relations highlights at the federal, state and local levels since the
last Executive Committee meeting held on July 20, 2023. This report was prepared on Tuesday,
September 12, 2023, and will be updated verbally as needed during the Executive Committee meeting
scheduled for Thursday, September 21, 2023.
Federal
At the federal level, the focus is on finding agreement on a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the
federal government beyond September 30, 2023. The U.S. House of Representative returned to work in
Washington, D.C., the week of September 11-15, 2023, and have only passed one of 12 appropriations
bills. There have been a number of demands from House members related to voting to approve a CR,
and it is unclear at this point if an agreement will be reached to keep government offices open. Formula

Packet Pg. 10

1.5.1

funding for transit programs is derived from Highway Trust Fund moneys, which will not be impacted by
a federal government shutdown. Traditionally, competitive federal grants are the programs that are most
impacted by a failure to approve appropriated federal funding. Staff will continue to track this matter
closely and will communicate to the agency’s federal delegation potential negative impacts related to a
lapse in federal funding.
State
At the state level, the Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC), which typically convenes
during the legislative interim each year, has commenced its 2023 meeting cadence. The General
Manager and CEO and Board Chair presented before the TLRC on August 21, 2023, and covered several
topics, including the Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis, RTD’s Partnership Program, People
Power, Zero Fare for Youth, and Zero Fare for Better Air.
Each year the TLRC advances up to five vetted bills for the full General Assembly’s consideration during
the Regular Session, which commences in January. During the August 21, 2023, meeting, the TLRC
voted to advance a list of 10 bills for consideration during the next scheduled meeting on October 3,
2023. Two bills out of the 10 initially approved for drafting relate to transit:
• The first bill, sponsored by Senator Fair Winter and Representative Meg Froelich, would support
state funding for zero-fare for youth programs statewide
• The second bill, sponsored by Senator Kevin Priola and Representative Ruby Dickson, would
create a statewide transit pass and personal income tax credit
Staff will be following these bills closely and will report back to the Board on the final bills advanced by
TLRC.
Following the resignation of former Senator Majority Leader Dominick Moreno, Senate Democrats voted
to support Senator Robert Rodriguez as the new Senate Majority Leader and Senator Faith Winter as the
new Assistant Majority Leader.
State Liaison Reporting
On Tuesday, September 12, 2023, RTD’s contracted state liaison services contractor, Brandeberry
McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK), received an inquiry via email from a Director regarding BBMK’s routine
reporting efforts. Specifically, the Director asked whether BBMK updates RTD on legislative matters in
the form of a written report. In fact, BBMK provides weekly updates to RTD throughout the year to a
group currently consisting of the Board Chair, Director Whitmore, the General Manager and CEO
(GM/CEO), the Government Relations Officer, and the Executive Manager of the Board Office. Salient
information contained in BBMK’s reports is subsequently shared with the Board by way of monthly
Government Relations reports such as this one, and any actionable items are conveyed to the Board for
their consideration.
On a separate note, BBMK will be adding two new Senior Lobbyists to their team in advance of the
Colorado General Assembly’s 2024 regular legislative session commencing in January 2024. Both
individuals have proven track records of legislative success and their talents will serve to enhance and

Packet Pg. 11

1.5.1

support BBMK’s mission of achieving results for their clients – including RTD – with integrity, hard work,
and political savvy.
Local
Related to local government activities, the GM/CEO participated in a panel discussion as part of
Commuting Solutions’ Sustainability Summit held in Longmont on Wednesday, August 30, 2023. The
discussion focused on Northwest Rail, Front Range Passenger Rail, and how efforts surrounding the two
initiatives can be aligned.
Additionally on August 30, 2023, the GM/CEO, Board Chair, and Government Relations Officer met with
the Mayor of Broomfield and Broomfield’s City and County Manager to discuss enhanced partnership
opportunities.
Lastly, the GM/CEO, Director Troy Whitmore, and the Government Relations Officer participated in a
Study Session with the Adams County Board of Commissioners on Tuesday, September 5, 2023, during
which RTD’s Partnership Program, the agency’s People Power, and Zero Fare for Youth initiative were
discussed.

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 12

1.5.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
2024 Draft Legislative and Government Relations Program

September 21, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
As part of the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan, staff initiated a process to develop and implement an annual
Legislative Program. The Board of Directors approved the agency’s first Legislative Program in October
2021. The Legislative Program is considered by the Board annually and serves as a guiding document for
Government Relations staff and external advocates to pursue goals related to legislation and policy
matters. Additionally, the Legislative Program serves as an organizing document that can be adjusted
throughout a legislative session to provide an avenue for Board-adopted policy positions to be
communicated and pursued by agency staff.
DISCUSSION
In line with the agency’s mission and vision established in the Strategic Plan, the development and
inclusion of the goals and actions contained in the Legislative Program are designed to make lives better
through connections. It is important that RTD serve as a trusted partner to the region’s local, state, and
federal elected officials. To achieve the adopted goals, RTD must be proactive in education and inform
the District’s elected officials of the challenges and opportunities available to advance shared goals.
Equally important is building trust through partnership that fits within the framework of RTD’s financial
forecast. The 2024 Draft Legislative and Government Relations Program, included as Attachment A to
this report, outlines priority actions on a variety of issues that staff believe are achievable through
advocacy and collaboration.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no direct financial impact associated with the Board’s consideration of this discussion item.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

2024 Legislative Program_Draft (PDF)

Prepared by:
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 13

1.5.2

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 14

1.5.2.a

2024 Draft Legislative and Government Relations Program

PURPOSE
To establish a set of Board-approved legislative and advocacy policies that benefit the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) and assist in guiding staff’s actions and efforts during the
Colorado General Assembly’s 2024 regular session that support the priorities and success
outcomes of the agency’s adopted 2021-2026 Strategic Plan.
STRATEGY
Developing and maintaining relationships with myriad stakeholders is central to RTD’s strategic
approach to government relations. Staff will work to communicate, educate, inform and partner
with the agency’s Congressional delegation, the Governor’s Office, the state General Assembly
delegation, and local elected officials to advocate for Board-approved policies.
Additionally, staff will continue to work with its industry associations to partner and collaborate
on shared goals to advance and seek support for legislative positions approved by the Board.
Those partners include but are not limited to the American Public Transportation Association
(APTA), the Colorado Association of Transit Agencies (CASTA), regional transportation
management organizations/associations (TMOs/TMAs), municipal and cultural chambers of
commerce, and other stakeholder organizations. Lastly, tactics included in the Legislative
Program will be guided and informed by the priorities set forth in the agency’s Board-approved
2021-2026 Strategic Plan – Community Value, Customer Excellence, Employee Ownership,
Financial Success.
EXECUTION PLAN
Contained herein are specific priorities and actions that outline areas of focus for the 2024
Legislative Program. Beyond the actions listed in this program, specific legislative matters are
likely to arise that warrant consideration by the Board.
To allow staff flexibility for consideration of items to be changed, added, or deleted as a result
of legislation introduced during the legislative session, the recommended change must be
presented to the Board as part of the Board’s Executive Committee or another committee
deemed appropriate by the General Manager/CEO and Board Chair. If time does not allow for
an item to be agendized for a committee meeting for discussion by the Board, RTD will remain
neutral on the legislation in question.

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: 2024 Legislative Program_Draft (4825 : 2024 Draft Legislative and Government Relations Program)

Attachment A

1.5.2.a

Attachment A

Initiative

Action

A. Implementation of
Surface Transportation
Authorization

Engage in national deliberations with partners such as APTA
to advocate for increased federal investment in public
transportation. Ensure that programs created and
implemented by the U.S. Department of Transportation (US
DOT) are eligible for RTD to participate, and that rules and
regulations associated with US DOT’s programs do not
negatively impact the agency.

B. Discretionary Grants

Advocate for federal discretionary grants to support transit
projects and planning throughout the district. Grant
programs include, but are not limited to, Capital Investment
Grant Program, Federal/State Partnership for State of Good
Repair, Bus and Bus Facilities, and Rebuilding American
Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity or RAISE Grant
program.

State
Initiative

Action

A. Partnering with the State
of Colorado on oversight

Work and communicate actively with members and staff of
the Colorado General Assembly on issues of state oversight
including Office of the State Auditor recommendations and
Accountability Committee recommendations. Ensure
members and staff are informed of RTD’s actions related to
oversight and implementation of recommendations.

B. Protect RTD’s ability to
deliver transit services
within Board approved
budget

Oppose legislation that would increase operating costs
without providing new sources of revenue.

C. Advocate for
environmental
stewardship through
Statewide Rules and
Regulations

Closely monitor, partner and participate in policy rules and
regulations proposed and implemented by the state of
Colorado. Advocate for the positive impact transit can have
on air quality improvement and ensure sources of eligible
funding are available to implement transit mitigation
measures that can assist in Greenhouse Gas reduction
through the region.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: 2024 Legislative Program_Draft (4825 : 2024 Draft Legislative and Government Relations Program)

Federal

1.5.2.a

D. Support legislation to
enhance penalties for
assault related crimes on
RTD front-line employees

Providing a welcoming and optimal working environment for
RTD’s front-line employees is paramount to retaining and
attracting a workforce needed to deliver transit services to its
service area. Following examples in other states, RTD staff
will work to identify a bill sponsor to introduce and pass state
legislation that would reclassify RTD transit workers to
enhance penalties for committing assault on an RTD
employee while performing job duties.

E. Support legislation to
provide funding for RTD’s
Zero-Fare for Youth
program

Starting September 1, 2023, through August 31, 2024, RTD
has implemented a pilot program to offer zero-fare transit
services for youth customers ages 19 and under. While RTD
is providing funding for the initial pilot program, should the
program be extended beyond the pilot year, RTD is seeking
external funding sources to support on-going operations of a
zero-fare for youth program.

Local
Initiative

Action

A. Denver Regional Council
of Governments
(DRCOG) Funding

Work and communicate with local jurisdictional partners to
provide information and best practices for implementing
funding eligible for transit operations or capital improvements
that assist RTD in providing optimal transit services.

B. Subregional Service
Councils and RTD Call for
Projects Partnership
Program

In accordance with recommendations made by the
Accountability Committee, continue to administer the Boardapproved framework for Subregional Service Councils. The
Subregional Service Councils will serve as a forum to discuss
and receive feedback on service planning. Additionally, the
Subregional Service Councils administer the process for
RTD’s Call for Projects Partnership Program.

C. Local Official and Key
Stakeholder Engagement

Build and maintain collaborative relationships and
engagement opportunities with local officials and key
stakeholders.

D. Communicate impact of
potential local policies
related to transit

Local governments throughout the RTD region on occasion
consider local policies that could have an impact on transit
operations. RTD staff will track and communicate potential
impacts related to local government policies being considered
by city councils and county commissions.

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: 2024 Legislative Program_Draft (4825 : 2024 Draft Legislative and Government Relations Program)

Attachment A

1.5.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Proposed Bylaw Amendment to Set a Time Limit on Board
Meetings

September 21, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
During the Executive Committee meeting held on July 20, 2023, the committee discussed the merits of
setting a limit or fixed end time on Board meetings. There was consensus that the idea was worth
further exploration and strong consideration. The Board Office and Directors have conducted research
looking to other Colorado local governmental entities on practices around setting limits on the length of
Board meetings. Additionally, the Board Office sought input from internal stakeholders on the
advantages and disadvantages of limiting the length of Board meetings. Based on the research
conducted and the input received, a proposed Bylaw amendment is now coming forward as a discussion
item.
DISCUSSION
The proposed Bylaw amendment would be to add the below language to Article IV (Meetings), Section 8
(Recesses and Adjournments)
Article IV (Meetings), Section 8 (Recesses and Adjournments):
Once four hours have elapsed following the call to order of a meeting, all regular, special and
committee meetings of the Board of Directors shall be adjourned at the conclusion of the agenda item
under consideration, unless the Board votes to extend the meeting’s length. A meeting may be
extended by a majority vote of present and voting members. Should there be a vote to extend the
meeting, such a vote must affix the time certain to adjourn. Any remaining action items on the agenda
at the time of adjournment will automatically carry forward to the next meeting of the Board or
respective committee.
The next steps in the process to amend this Bylaw are to:
1) Discuss and consider any proposed amendments during the Executive Committee meeting
scheduled for September 21, 2023
2) Solicit feedback and input from the full Board
3) Revise the proposed Bylaw amendment as appropriate based on the feedback received

Packet Pg. 18

1.5.3

4) Send to the full Board the exact language of the proposed Bylaw amendment no later than10days prior to the October Board meeting (Article XV Modification of Bylaws)
5) Any amendment voted on at the October Board meeting would require 10 votes to pass (Article
XV Modification of Bylaws)
This proposed amendment, if adopted, aligns with the Strategic Priorities of Community Value and
Customer Excellence by expanding the level of public access provided to Board meetings. Further, if
adopted, this proposed Bylaw update aligns with the Strategic Priority of Employee Ownership by
affording the Board and staff who attend regularly the meetings of the Board a greater ability to plan for
their commitments. And, lastly, if adopted, this change would impact the Strategic Priority of Financial
Success, by potentially reducing the costs associated with hosting and producing Board meetings.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Capping the length of Board meetings could reduce costs for staff overtime, contracted production
services, security overtime, and interpretation and translation services.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

Examples of Set Adjourning Time (DOCX)

Prepared by:
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 19

1.5.3.a
We make lives better
through connections.

Fort Collins, CO City Council
Every regular Council meeting will end no later than midnight, except that: (1) any item of business commenced
before midnight may be concluded before the meeting is adjourned and (2) the Council may, at any time prior
to adjournment, by majority vote, extend a meeting beyond midnight for the purpose of considering additional
items of business. Any matter that has been commenced and is still pending at the conclusion of the Council
meeting, and all matters scheduled for consideration at the meeting that have not yet been considered by the
Council, will be deemed continued to the next regular Council meeting, unless Council determines otherwise.

Golden, CO City Council
All meetings shall adjourn no later than 10 p.m., or as soon thereafter as the hour may be brought to the
attention of the chair, except that upon a majority vote of those councilors present meeting, such meeting may
be extended to 10:30 p.m. Meetings may be extended past 10:30 p.m. only upon the adoption of a motion to
suspend the rules, which requires a majority vote of all councilors. The vote on any such suspension shall be
entered upon the record. When making a motion to suspend the rules, the councilor shall specify the rule or part
thereof to be suspended and the purpose for such suspension.

Boulder, CO City Council
The council's goal is that all meetings be adjourned by 10:30 p.m. An agenda check will be conducted at or
about 9:00 p.m., and no later than at the end of the first item finished after 9:00 p.m. Generally, absent a
deadline which the council cannot affect, no new substantial item will be addressed after 10:30 p.m. At the
9:00 p.m. agenda check council will make a realistic assessment of the items remaining on the agenda. Council
will table and ask the Council Agenda Committee to reschedule any item that council members reasonably
believe will prevent adjournment by 10:30 p.m. The Debrief is not a substantial item. No new item shall be
introduced after 10:30 p.m. unless a majority of the council members in attendance at that time agree. All
council meetings shall be adjourned at or before 11:00 p.m., unless the meeting is extended by a vote of twothirds of the council members present. Council shall attempt to schedule any matter not heard before
adjournment as the first item at the next study session. If necessary, the council shall schedule a special
meeting to coincide with the scheduled study session. It is assumed that council will reschedule items
previously scheduled for the study session to accommodate any newly added items.

Longmont, CO City Council
In order to facilitate the convenience of the public and Council, whenever practicable, it shall be the policy of Council
to adjourn at 11:00 P.M., and that items not under present consideration be continued and not be called for
consideration after such hour.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Examples of Set Adjourning Time (4820 : Bylaw Change to Set a Time Limit on Board Meetings)

LOCAL COLORADO GOVERNMENT EXAMPLES
OF SET ADJOURNING TIME

1.5.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Board Expense Policy Update

September 21, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive Manager
Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Operations Manager
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
The expense policy is a Board-approved document that governs the process for the reimbursement of
expenses incurred by Directors pursuant to §32-9-117(4), C.R.S. The policy was last reviewed and
approved by the Board in March 2019.
DISCUSSION
The proposed revisions to the policy are an effort to:
• Improve fiscal transparency
• Eliminate obsolete, inaccurate, or redundant references and/or practices
• Correct obvious errors and inconsistencies
• Employ inclusive language
• Include Travel Per Diem to align with staff practices
• Clarify existing policy and modernize terminology
Following discussion during the September 21, 2023, Executive Committee meeting, the Board Office
will solicit further feedback from the Board and return this policy to the Executive Committee with any
additional changes as a recommended action in October 2023. Should the Board approve any changes to
the policy, those changes will take effect in January 1, 2024, which will align with the new fiscal year.
When adopted, this action item will meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Priorities of Employee Ownership and
Financial Success.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with the adoption of the revised expense policy.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

2023-09-21 Executive Summary Board of Director Expense and Reimbursement Update

•

2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (PDF)

•

2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (PDF)

(PDF)

Packet Pg. 21

1.5.4

Prepared by:
Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Operations Manager
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 22

Executive Summary
Proposed Changes to RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Overview: In August 2023, the Board Office embarked on a full review of the RTD Board of Directors
Expense Policy and Procedures Manual. The document was last updated in 2019 and stands to benefit
from, among other items, numerous changes to align the document with current Board Office practices
and recent changes to RTD’s employee travel policies.
Timeline: The timeline for fall 2023 review is as follows
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

August: Board Office staff draft recommendations for changes to the policy
August: Chair reviews initial draft changes
August-September: RTD General Counsel and CFO review draft changes
September: Executive Committee reviews drafts changes
September: Full board is provided with draft changes
October: Executive Committee re-reviews
October: Full board considers for approval

Categories of proposed changes: Generally, the proposed changes to the policy fall into the following
categories: revisions to align the board’s travel policies with that of the agency; additions to drive financial
transparency; edits to clarify language; adaptations of policies to align with current practices and a
modernization of business expenses; changes to use more inclusive language; and modifications to drive
clarity as well as reduce redundancy.
Key proposed changes: Key changes to the policy include
•
•
•
•
•

Replacing per meal and incidental expense reimbursement with a per diem system for out-ofdistrict travel. (Aligns with RTD employee travel policy change)
Addition of a fourth expense category for out-of-district conference registrations to drive financial
transparency.
Modernization of business expenses to include changes in air fare and hotel pricing
Explicitly creating the option for Directors to receive an RTD issued cell phone
More clearly identifying acceptable expenses

Next steps: Should the Board adopt these changes the new policy would take effect starting January 1,
2024. And while the Board would retain the ability to update the policy further at any time, the policy
would then be placed on a review cycle to be revisited in the fall of 2026.

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: 2023-09-21 Executive Summary Board of Director Expense and Reimbursement Update (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.a

1.5.4.b

RTD BOARD OF
DIRECTORS EXPENSE
POLICY AND
PROCEDURES MANUAL
Effective January 1, 2024

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

1 of 14

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

Board of Directors Office

1.5.4.b

1.0.
2.0.
3.0.
4.0.
4.1.

General Policy ........................................................................................................ 3
Reimbursable Expenses ......................................................................................... 4
Travel Request Process................................................................................................. 6
Travel Arrangements ............................................................................................. 7
Transportation ........................................................................................................ 7
4.1.1. Air Transportation...................................................................................... 7
4.1.2. Ground Transportation .............................................................................. 8
4.1.3. Car Rental ................................................................................................... 8
4.1.4.
Personal Vehicles and Travel Outside the District Other Than by Air...8
4.1.5. Mileage Reimbursement ............................................................................ 9
4.2. Lodging (Hotel Accommodations) ........................................................................ 9
4.3. Per Diem for Meals and Incidental Travel Expenses ......................................... 9
4.4. In State Travel ..................................................................................................... 10
5.0. Business Communications (cell phone, internet).............................................. 10
6.0. Out of State Conference Registrations ............................................................. 11
6.1. Local Conferences/Seminars .............................................................................. 11
7.0. Professional Affiliations/Membership Subscriptions ........................................ 11
8.0. Participation in Transit Related Community Events ......................................... 12
9.0. Participation in Community Non-Transit Related Events ................................ 12
10.0. Ban on Political Expenditures ............................................................................. 12
11.0 Expense Reports .................................................................................................. 12
11.1. Travel Expense Reports ...................................................................................... 12
11.2. Local Expense Reports ........................................................................................ 13
11.3. Local Expense Report Processing Calendar ...................................................... 13
11.4 Expense Records .................................................................................................. 13

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

2 of 14

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Regional Transportation District Act, specifically in sections 32-9-114 (d) and
32-9-117, establishes the authority for reimbursement of necessary expenses
pertaining to the activities of the District.
1.0.

General Policy

Directors are eligible for reimbursement from the District for reasonable expenses
incurred that are necessary to the transaction of official District business. Each
Director must, at all times, exercise sound judgment when incurring and submitting
such expenses, in keeping within the standards and proprieties of an agency
supported by public tax dollars.
Each Director’s annual budget is as follows:
Travel Expense and
Conferences

Local Expense

IT Expenses for
Monthly
Internet/Phone

$6000.00

$4000.00

1680.00

Out of State
Conference
Registration
Fees
$1800.00

At the discretion of the Chair, the Board Office may transfer funds between a
Director’s Travel and Local budget accounts to cover expenses incurred or anticipated
to be incurred by the Director. IT expenses eligible for reimbursement are outlined in
Section 5.0, Business Communications.
Directors may not transfer funds from their IT expense or Conference Registration
budgets to either Local or Travel budgets. A Director may not transfer expense funds
to another Director. The Chair may, at their discretion, utilize funds from the Chair’s
discretionary account to pay for another Director’s travel or local expenses.
The Board of Directors may choose to periodically limit by way of resolution the
amount annually allocated to the Directors’ expense accounts as the economy and
the fiscal sustainability of the District dictate.
The Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District has taken formal action
to delegate authorization for travel necessary to the transaction of official business,
within budget limitations, as follows:
1. The Chair may authorize business, conference, and training travel, including
associated expenses for Directors.
2. The allowable reimbursable expenses contained in this document are detailed
in Section 2.0, Reimbursable Expenses.
The Chair may choose to deny a request from a Director for travel not covered by
items 1-2 above, refer the request to the Executive Committee, or both. The Chair
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

3 of 14

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.b

1.5.4.b

A Director whose request for travel has been denied by the Chair or the Executive
Committee may appeal for reconsideration of the denial by the full Board. Unless the
travel request is subsequently approved, the Board Office cannot make further travel
arrangements related to the denied trip. A Director is not eligible for reimbursement
for the cost of any unapproved travel costs or arrangements booked by the Director.
The Chair must deny the travel request of any Director who has expended or will
have expended prior to the trip all monies from the Director’s travel budget, unless
the Chair elects to pay for the Director’s trip expenses using the Chair’s discretionary
funds.
The Board of Directors may not incur expenses to any RTD departmental (except
Board Office) or non-departmental budget code. All incurred travel related-expenses
eligible for reimbursement by a Director must be charged to the Director’s travel
Budget.

A Director is eligible for reimbursement for normal, customary expenses incurred by
the Director, and a guest, if the event is a local, transit-related event sponsored by
RTD. The expenses of the Director and the Director’s guest, are paid from the
Director’s local expense fund. (Resolution 002, Series of 2019).
While the Colorado Independent Ethics Commission has ruled that Article XXIX of
the State Constitution (also referred to as Amendment 41) pertaining to ethics in
government does not specifically apply to the RTD Board, the recommendation from
RTD’s General Counsel is for Directors to refrain from accepting anything of greater
than nominal value in the exercise of their official duties. A Director who attends, as
a function of his or her official duties, an event for which the expected value of
attendance exceeds $65.00 is responsible for the cost of their attendance. Directors
may submit itemized receipts for reimbursement, or the Board Office can make
arrangements prior to the event and charge the cost to the Director’s local expenses.
2.0.

Reimbursable Expenses

The following expense categories may be claimed as a necessary part of
conducting District business:
Travel:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Conference Registration fees
Air transportation
Business, conference, and training expenses
Ground transportation and tolls
Lodging and travel internet expenses
Advanced approved Rental car

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

4 of 14

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

may refer any travel or reimbursement request to the Executive Committee without
the Chair’s prior determination on the request.

1.5.4.b

•
•

Travel Per Diem

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Business, conference, and training expenses
Mileage for personal vehicles
Parking fees
Individual software licenses necessary for conducting RTD business
Postage for District business only
Subscription fees for relevant news publications
Toner cartridges
Other expenses identified for the benefit of the District, such as:
.1.
Event sponsorship fees
.2.
Office supplies
.3.
Town Hall or other special meeting supplies and refreshments
.4.
Meals and gratuities
.5.
Books and Reference materials
.6.
Printing costs
.7.
Organization Membership dues (example: Accelerate Colorado)

To protect the interest of the District and to provide guidelines for the Directors to
follow, the following provisions govern allowances for out of town and local business
related expenses within established budget limits. Only business expenses may be
claimed.
In order to be eligible for reimbursement for an ordinary and necessary RTD business
related expense, the Director must submit a proper itemized receipt showing the cost,
time, date, business purpose, and the name and title of any qualifying attendee, if
applicable. An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in one’s field
of trade, business, or profession. Examples of ordinary and necessary local expenses
include mileage reimbursement, conference or seminar registration fees, parking,
business meeting expenses, and attendance at transit-related or community events
that are considered a necessary part of conducting District business. Political
meetings, partisan conferences, or political group activities cannot be covered as an
RTD expense.
In order to be reimbursed for local expenses, Directors must submit an itemized
receipt. If meetings between multiple Directors and either employees or business
contacts occur where a meal is expensed, the meal costs are equally divided among
the Directors attending and charged to each Director’s local expense account
accordingly. Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for meals or event fees
incurred by guests except as described in Section 1.0, General Policy.
In the event that RTD purchases a table for an event for which not all seats are
claimed by Directors and staff, a Director may request additional seats on a firstcome, first-served basis and may invite a guest at no cost to the Director’s local
expense account.
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

5 of 14

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

Local:

1.5.4.b

In-person Board and/or Committee Meetings are typically catered for the convenience
of Directors. If a Director chooses to have a meal ordered for them by the Board
Office, the cost of the meal will be charged back to their local account. If a Director
chooses to purchase their own meal from a different vendor, the Director must
provide an itemized receipt in order to be reimbursed for the meal cost.
Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for expenses, such as meals, flights,
hotels, etc., whether local or out-of-District, for any non-RTD transit-related business.
This includes expenses incurred by spouses, significant others, guests, or
dependents. In the event that a Director departs from an out-of-district event or
conference earlier than anticipated or stays longer than originally scheduled through
the Board Office, the Director cannot be reimbursed for meals or lodging fees for the
day or days of the early departure or late stay. For any additional airline fees or
charges incurred as the result of a flight change due to an early departure or late
stay, the Director must bear the cost as a personal expense.

The following expenses are not authorized for reimbursement unless approved by the
Chair:
• Personal expenses such as personal hygiene items, magazines, in-room
movies, in-flight movies, pre-boarding fees, laundry, childcare, pet care,
etc.
• Trip insurance for flights and/or hotel
• Travel Insurance (note:
All Directors receive Travel and Accident
Insurance, which covers the Director while traveling on district business.
• Alcohol (Reference RTD Drug and Alcohol policy)
• Expenses that are non-ordinary
The Chair has discretion in approving Director expenses. If requested expenses do
not fall within the expense guidelines, the Chair may seek advice and
recommendations from the Executive Committee.
This policy is not designed to provide guidance on every conceivable expense
reimbursement request, as such, Directors are encouraged to seek advanced preapproval for any potential expenses which are not explicitly covered elsewhere in this
document.

3.0.

Travel Request Process

Travel arrangements for the RTD Directors are typically handled by the Board Office.
Travel authorizations signed by the Chair are required for all travel. Directors should
contact the office at least 30 days in advance and provide all information needed to
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

6 of 14

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

Any incidental local expenses submitted without a proper itemized receipt will only
be reimbursed up to $10.00.

1.5.4.b

When requesting travel arrangements, Directors should provide the following
information to the Board Office:
• Conference Name
• Requested arrival and departure dates/times
• Preferred airline and frequent flyer number (if applicable)
• Any applicable discounts, credits or travel miles to be utilized
• Special considerations
Unless prior approval is obtained, the Board Office arranges Directors’ travel on the
most economical fare for the required journey and makes every effort to book the
Directors their desired flights and host hotel accommodations. The Board Office
provides electronic travel confirmations to each Director with the flight and hotel
confirmations, transportation information, a copy of the event registration and
agenda, and other pertinent travel materials.
Travel requests received less than seven business days before the scheduled trip are
processed based on the most current rates and availability.
If a Director cancels their scheduled trip, any airline, conference, or hotel cancellation
penalties will be deducted from their travel and/or conference registration fee
account, as applicable.
4.0.

Travel Arrangements
4.1.

Transportation
4.1.1. Air Transportation
Air transportation for travel to out-of-District conferences and events is typically
arranged by the RTD Board Office. Travel by indirect routes, or inclusion of side-trips
for personal reasons, must be approved by the Chair. Reimbursement for travel
expenses in a host city is allowed one day before the start of a conference or one
day following scheduled conference events where travel scheduling provisions or
same day flight times are not available or convenient, such as when a Director would
need to fly from Denver to Washington, D.C., on Saturday to arrive in time for a
conference with a start day of Sunday, and no flights are available for the Director
to arrive in time for the Sunday meeting start time.
Directors are responsible for any portion of ticket costs resulting from personal side
trips (including hotel, food, ground transportation, and parking).
If the RTD air travel is a portion of another planned flight that has been arranged
directly by the Director, a copy of the itinerary and ticket claiming reimbursement
must be provided to the Board Office at the time of booking.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

7 of 14

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

complete the airline and hotel accommodations. If a Director chooses to make their
own travel arrangements, all travel confirmations are to be provided to the Board
Office at the time of booking for the purpose of record keeping and expense tracking.

1.5.4.b

A Director will be reimbursed costs associated with standard seat selection and
appropriate baggage fees if not selected at the time of ticket purchase.
i
Directors who wish to use their frequent flyer miles (if applicable) must provide the
Board Office with the frequent flyer number at the time of the booking. The Board
Office requests this information in advance, but it is the sole responsibility of the
Director to ensure his or her account has been credited with the frequent flyer mileage
information.
All air transportation credits paid for by RTD are to be utilized in the booking of future
Director travel only and are not for personal use.
4.1.2. Ground Transportation
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for the actual expense of ground
transportation necessary to conduct official business. As a representative for the
transit agency, Directors are expected to utilize the most efficient, timely, and costeffective ground transportation when traveling locally or out of town, namely public
transit, shuttlebus service, transportation network company such as UBER or LYFT,
taxi, or rental car, in this order of preference. If a Director pays for the transportation
of other Directors or staff, all names are to be documented on the receipt and expense
report for reimbursement.
4.1.3. Car Rental
Car rental expenses are permitted only with prior approval of the RTD Board Chair
and only when absolutely necessary in the event that another means of transportation
is not feasible. Rental car arrangements should be made by the Board Office staff.
Travel between the airport and the hotel or conference center by rental car or other
means are eligible for reimbursement with receipts provided that the Chair has
authorized the rental.
The rental car should be contracted for a size appropriate for the number of
passengers. The Director must include a copy of the rental contract when submitting
the expense report. Reasonable parking fees for rental cars may be claimed for
reimbursement. (Note: Travelers must ensure that adequate insurance coverage is in
place by purchasing optional insurance coverage as part of the rental agreement.
(Cars are to be refueled before returning to the rental agency.)
4.1.4. Personal Vehicles and Travel Outside the District Other Than
by Air
The use of personal vehicles outside of the District is not encouraged. Directors must
have the Chair’s approval prior to using a personal vehicle for official business outside
the boundaries of the District. This includes local conferences covered in Section
4.6, In-State Travel.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

8 of 14

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

A Director is responsible for any first-class, business class, and pro-rata boarding
expenses.

1.5.4.b

4.1.5. Mileage Reimbursement
The standard vehicle mileage allowance is determined annually by the Internal
Revenue Service. R
All mileage incurred, including to and from the airport for local events and/or travel,
by a Director is paid through the appropriate expense cost code to the Director on all
submitted expense forms.
Director’s expense accounts will cover the first 30 miles of milage reimbursement
per event. Any milage that exceeds 30 miles will be charged to mileage-differential
and charged to a Board Office expense account.
4.2. Lodging (Hotel Accommodations)
The Board Office typically books lodging accommodations via P-Card for each
Director attending an out-of-District event. In the event these fees are not pre-paid,
the Director must submit a copy of the official hotel bill with the expense report when
claiming reimbursement.
The Board Office makes reasonable arrangements at the single occupancy rate for
hotel accommodations in accordance with acceptable standards for that location.
For APTA conferences, hotel reservations cannot be booked until the attendee is
registered for the conference. Directors should inform the Board Office staff in a
timely manner they wish to attend a conference, otherwise the conference hotel
could fill up.
Hotels typically require a personal credit card for the person staying at the hotel for
purpose of incidental expenditures. Arrangements made via RTD P-Card only cover
room, tax, and any other destination/mandatory fees (if applicable). Upon check in,
Directors will need to provide the front desk with their own personal credit cards for
miscellaneous expenses. When checking out, Directors must ensure that their
personal credit cards were not charged for room and tax.
Note* For Directors using a debit or bank card to cover miscellaneous expenses, the
hotel may place a hold on the card in a set amount for the duration of the stay.
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for the actual cost of lodging, including room
charges, taxes and fees. If Directors are unable or unwilling to stay at the conference
host hotel, it is recommended that they adhere to GSA daily lodging rates.

4.3.
Per Diem for Meals and Incidental Travel Expenses
Directors will be reimbursed a per diem amount according to the current federal
Continental United States (CONUS) published reimbursement rates to be used for the
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

9 of 14

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

If approved, the milage reimbursement for out of state travel cannot exceed a
reasonable flight cost to and from the destination.

cost of meals or other incidental travel expenses including housekeeping or baggage
fees and tips, snacks, drinks, etc. There is no need for a Director to submit receipts
for these items in their travel reimbursement request as they will receive the CONUS
per diem rate by travel location for each day of business travel, therefore, it is within
the Director’s discretion to determine the usage of this amount. This per diem
reimbursement amount will be adjusted annually in accordance with the General
Services Administration federal CONUS reimbursement rate.

Directors cannot be reimbursed for any day(s) that they may choose to go early or
stay late for personal reasons. (See Section 2.0, Reimbursable Expenses.)

4.4.

In State Travel

Directors travelling within the state but outside the District to attend seminars,
conferences, or transit-related meetings are eligible for reimbursement for travel
expenses so long as the location is more than two-hours’ driving distance each way
or greater than 160 miles from the point of origin. Covered expenses include
registration fees, lodging, standard mileage, and food when accompanied with valid
itemized receipts and expense reports showing time, place, and purpose. Directors
are not eligible for reimbursement for lodging expenses without the prior approval of
the Chair if the location of an event is within two-hours’ driving distance or less than
160 miles from the point of origin. For additional information regarding in state travel
see section 4.1.4 Personal Vehicles and Travel outside the District other than Air.
(Approved Travel and Local policy, November 20, 2007)
5.0.

Business Communications (cell phone, internet)

Directors are eligible for reimbursement for an initial home office setup package from
their local expense account. Eligible equipment includes high-speed internet
equipment such as a cable modem and router, and printer. The Director is responsible
for selection, use, ownership, loss, and replacement of all equipment after initial
reimbursement by the District. Directors may opt to purchase the equipment or utilize
RTD-owned equipment. Equipment purchased by Directors and reimbursed is
considered RTD property.
Each Director, upon their request, will be provided an RTD issued and owned smart
phone and a laptop/tablet. RTD owned equipment is subject to RTD rules for the use
and handling of agency-owned equipment, including but not limited to policies
governing the type of information permitted to be stored or accessed on the computer
or smart phone. All equipment provided or purchased with funds that were later
reminbursed by the District remains the property of the District and must be returned
upon the Director’s departure from office.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

10 of 14

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.b

In the alternative, Directors may use their existing equipment or may acquire their
own equipment for use in conducting their official duties. To be eligible for
reimbursement for recurring IT expenses, a Director must submit on a monthly basis
a telephone and/or internet bill indicating the amount paid. Monthly reimbursement
claims that are not accompanied by supporting documentation are not eligible for
reimbursement. Monthly IT reimbursements are capped at $140.00 per Director.

6.0.

Out of State Conference Registrations

Registration fees for conferences, workshops, or other approved events are typically
pre-paid directly by the Board Office. In circumstances where a Director pays for their
own registration fees, the Director is eligible for reimbursement post travel and must
submit with the expense report, when claiming reimbursement, a receipt or proof of
registration fee paid.
The Board cannot exceed its budget allocations for conferences, seminars, and other
such events. Out-of-District registration fees for each Director are charged to the
Directors Conference Registration Fee budget. Local registration fees are charged to
the Directors’ local expense account.
6.1.

Local Conferences/Seminars

Directors are eligible for reimbursement for expenditures or fees incurred while
attending local seminars, technical meetings, or meetings related to professional
development upon submittal of a local expense report along with appropriate receipts.
Such fees are charged to the Director’s local expense account.

7.0.

Professional Affiliations/Membership Subscriptions

The Regional Transportation District encourages development of Directors through
active membership in professional organizations.
Although membership in
professional affiliations can be an indirect benefit to RTD as an organization, the main
benefit is the development of the Director, by allowing the Director to keep abreast
of trends in their transportation or technology, cultivate networks with other
professionals, and develop skills and ideas to become more effective in their policymaking at RTD. Any memberships that are of an extraordinary cost or that require
approval will go before the Executive Committee for approval.
Membership subscriptions in local chambers or approved organizations are processed
through the RTD Public Relations Office. Directors should submit their membership
requests through the Board office who will track and coordinate with the RTD staff
responsible for payment. Organizations must meet the criteria of being transit-related
and/or necessary to the conduct of business and local community involvement.
Membership requests that do not fit this criterion must be approved through the
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

11 of 14

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.b

1.5.4.b

For budgeted events only, such as the Board Member/Board Support conference
hosted by the Board in 2015, the budget allocations for specific events serve as the
official authorization for the Chair to approve. For out-of-District budgeted events
only, the “RTD Travel Request and Authorization” form and the expense report
require approval from the Chair.
8.0.

Participation in Transit Related Community Events

A Director is eligible for reimbursement for normal, customary expenses associated
with attending an event for the Director and one guest, so long as the event is transit
related. The expenses of the Director and one guest are paid from the Director’s local
expense fund.
Directors may sponsor a transit related community event with advance approval of
the Chair. Any sponsorship costs will be deducted from the Director’s local expense
account.
9.0.

Participation in Community Non-Transit Related Events

Participation in community non-transit related events is supported by RTD with
approval of the benefit to the agency. Such events are essential in getting the
community involved in the mission and vision of RTD. At times the General Manager
or RTD outreach departments purchase a table at a community event and invite
Directors as ambassadors for RTD at no cost to the Director.
Any other approved events are paid for out of the Director’s local expense budget.
Should a Director decide to purchase a table for an event in the Director’s community
with local expense funds, any unused seats are to be paid for out of the Director’s
local budget as well.
10.0. Ban on Political Expenditures
At no time can a Director’s expense funds or RTD funds be used for any event or
expenditure that is political in nature. For guidance on determining whether an event
or expenditure is political in nature, Directors should consult with RTD General
Counsel.

11.0. Expense Reports
11.1. Travel Expense Reports
Pursuant to IRS guidelines, a Director should submit a completed expense report to
the Board Office no later than the end of the month following the Director’s return to
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

12 of 14

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

General Manager’s budget. The Board policy on Organizational Memberships was
passed in August of 2011.

the District. (e.g., If the trip was taken in October, the expense report is due no later
than by November 30th). The Executive Committee reserves the right to suspend the
provision of travel arrangements for any Director who is delinquent in submitting an
expense report. If extra time is needed to complete the expense report or the Director
has a valid reason for the delay, the Chair should be notified to make the decision to
extend this timeline.
The Board Office processes one travel expense report, post travel, for each Director
traveling to an out-of-District conference or event. In order to provide processing time
for the staff to meet the deadline for submitting the reports to the Chair, the Directors
must include supporting documentation for expense reimbursement. Directors should
submit a completed expense report to the Board Office within two weeks after
returning from a trip.
11.2. Local Expense Reports
Pursuant to IRS guidelines, in order to receive reimbursement for local expenses, a
Director must submit a completed monthly local expense report to the Board Office
within 90 days of the date of the incurred expense. In the months in which no
expenses are incurred or in which the Director does not wish to claim any expense,
the Director must still submit a signed report for the reporting month with zero
balance. The Board Office will process one local expense report for each month a
Director requests reimbursement.
11.3. Local Expense Report Processing Calendar
Directors will submit their local expense reports to the Board Office according to the
following calendar. The Executive Committee reserves the right to suspend the
provision of reimbursement for any Director who is regularly delinquent in submitting
local expense reports.
•
•
•
•

January – March – Due by April 10th
April – June – Due by July 10th
July – September – Due by October 10th
October – December* – Due by December 10th

*RTD Accounts Payable will allow Directors to use November’s IT statements for
December processing.
11.4. Expense Records
The Board Office keeps records of each Director’s submitted local and travel
expenses and provides to the Chair upon request, a report of all expenses incurred
by the Directors. The Board Office retains a record of all expenses for audit
purposes.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

13 of 14

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.b

1.5.4.b

RTD Board of Directors
Board Office
TBD, 2024
TBD, 2023
This document replaces and updates Board of Directors
Expense Policy and Procedures Manual adopted March
26, 2019.

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Clean DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

Document Owner:
Author:
Effective Date:
Revision Date:
Purpose:

Approval/s (if applicable)

Version
BOD001
BOD002
BOD003

BOD004
BOD005

Date
1999-1021
2001-1114
2007-1120
08/10
2012-0822

BOD006

BOD007
BOD008
BOD009

2016-1129
2019-0326
2023-TBD

Change History
Change Definition
Board Travel Policy Dates and Amounts from Amy
Caldwell
Updates & incorporates all related Board Policies and
Guidelines into one document
Updates & incorporates all changes made to the Board
Local, Travel and Telecommunications Reimbursement
Policies approved at the 11/20/07 Board Meeting.
Updates to provide summarization of changes

Updates to follow agency guidelines of Travel and
Business expenses directive revised and approved
2013-02-06
Update approved by full Board
Administrative changes and clarifications; addition of
definitions section.
Administrative changes, clarifications, addition of
Travel Per Diem

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

14 of 14

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

Style Definition: TOC 1: Tab stops: 0.5", Left + 5.99",
Right,Leader: …

Board of Directors Office

Style Definition: TOC 2: Indent: Hanging: 0.17", Tab
stops: 0.5", Left

Style Definition: TOC 3: Tab stops: 0.5", Left + 1", Left +
5.99", Right,Leader: …

RTD BOARD OF
DIRECTORS EXPENSE
POLICY AND
PROCEDURES MANUAL
Effective January 1, 2024

Formatted: Indent: Left: -0.19", Right: -0.13"

Formatted: Font: 36 pt

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

1 of 19

Packet Pg. 38

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.0.
2.0.
3.0.
3.1.
3.2.
4.0.
4.1.

General Policy ........................................................................................................ 3
Reimbursable Expenses ..................................................................................... 554
Travel Request Process............................................................................................... 76
Reservations .................................................................................................................... 7
Travel Advance .................................................................................................... 87
Travel Arrangements ......................................................................................... 987
Transportation .................................................................................................... 987
4.1.1. AirlinesAir Transportation ..................................................................... 987
4.1.2. Ground Transportation ........................................................................ 1088
4.1.3. Car Rental ............................................................................................. 1098
4.1.4.
Personal Vehicles and Travel Outside the District Other Than by Air

1098
4.1.5. Mileage Reimbursement ........................................................................ 109
4.2. Lodging (Hotel Accommodations) .................................................................... 109
4.3. Meals Per Diem for Meals and Incidental Travel Expenses ...................... 12109
4.4. Miscellaneous Expenses ................................................................................. 1211
4.54. In State Travel ................................................................................................. 1110
5.0. Business Communications (cell phone, internet)...................................... 131110
6.0. Publications ...................................................................................................... 1412
67.0. Out of State Conference Registrations ..................................................... 141211
67.1. Local Conferences/Seminars ...................................................................... 141311
7.2. Out of Town Conferences .............................................................................. 1513
78.0. Professional Affiliations/Membership Subscriptions ................................ 151311
89.0. Participation in Transit Related Community Events ............................... 151312
910.0. Participation in Community Non-Transit Related Events ........................ 161412
10.0. Ban on Political Expenditures ............................................................................. 12
11.0. Travel Insurance .............................................................................................. 1614
1112.0 ...................................................................................................... Expense Reports

Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.31", Right: -0.31", No bullets
or numbering

Formatted: Hyperlink, Font: Univers, 11 pt, Bold, Check
spelling and grammar

Formatted: Font: Univers, Bold
Formatted: Tab stops: Not at 0.67"
Formatted: Tab stops: Not at 0.67"

161412
1112.1. Travel Expense Reports .......................................................................... 161412
1112.2. Local Expense Reports ............................................................................ 171513
1112.3. Local Expense Report Processing Calendar .................................... 171513
11.4
Expense Records.............................................................................................. 13
13.0. Definitions ...................................................................................................................... 18

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

Formatted: Font: Bold
Formatted: Font: Bold
Formatted: Font: Bold
Formatted: Font: Times New Roman
Formatted: Font: Univers, 11 pt

Formatted: Normal, No bullets or numbering, Tab stops:
0.5", Left

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

2 of 19

Packet Pg. 39

The Regional Transportation District Act, specifically in sections 32-9-114 (d) and
32-9-117, establishes the authority for reimbursement of necessary expenses
pertaining to the activities of the District.
1.0.

General Policy

Directors are eligible for reimbursement from the District for reasonable expenses
incurred that are necessary to the transaction of official District business. Each
Director must, at all times, exercise sound judgment when incurring and submitting
such expenses, in keeping within the standards and proprieties of an agency
supported by public tax dollars.
Each Director’s annual budget is as follows:
Travel Expense and
Conferences
Annually

Local Expense
Annually

$6000.00

$4000.00

IT Expenses for
Monthly
Internet/Phone
Annually
1680.00

Out of State
Conference
Registration
Fees
$1800.00

Formatted Table

Commented [TSP1]: Added for Transparency.

At the discretion of the Chair, the Board Office may transfer monies funds between
a Director’s Travel and Local budget accounts to cover expenses incurred or
anticipated to be incurred by the Director. IT expenses eligible for reimbursement are
outlined in Section 5.0, Business Communications.
Directors may not transfer monies funds from their IT expense or Conference
Registration budgets to either Local or Travel budgets. A Director may not transfer
expense monies funds to another Director. The Chair may, at his or her their
discretion, utilize monies funds from the Chair’s discretionary funds account to pay
for another Director’s travel or local expenses.
The Board of Directors may choose to periodically limit by way of resolution the
amount annually allocated to the Directors’ expense accounts as the economy and
the fiscal sustainability of the District dictate.
The Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District has taken formal action
to delegate authorization for travel necessary to the transaction of official business,
within budget limitations, as follows:
1. The Chair may authorize , within budget limitations, business, conference, and
training travel, including associated expenses for Directors to consult with
Federal Transit Administration (FTA), Federal Railroad Administration (FRA),
other federal agencies, or the Congressional Delegation in Washington, D.C.,
on matters pertaining to RTD activities.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

3 of 19

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

2. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, conference travel
expenses for Directors to attend transit industry related conferences.
3. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, training travel expenses
for Directors to attend educational workshops.
4. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, business travel expenses
for Directors to visit other transit properties.
5. The Chair may authorize, within budget limitations, transit related local travel
and related expenses.
6.2.
The allowable reimbursable expenses contained in this document
include air travel, food, lodging, business communications, gratuities, and
other such reimbursable expenses are detailed in Section 2.0, Reimbursable
Expenses.

Commented [TSP2]: Removed/revised for clarity.

Commented [TSP3]: This section was simplified.

The Chair may choose to deny a request from a Director for travel not covered by
items 1-6 2 above, refer the request to the Executive Committee, or both. The Chair
may refer any travel or reimbursement request to the Executive Committee without
the Chair’s prior determination on the request.
A Director whose request for travel has been denied by the Chair or the Executive
Committee may appeal for reconsideration of the denial by the full Board. Unless the
travel request is subsequently approved, the Board Office cannot make further travel
arrangements related to the denied trip. A Director is not eligible for reimbursement
for the cost of any unapproved travel costs or arrangements booked by the Director.
The Chair must deny the travel request of any Director who has expended or will
have expended prior to the trip all monies from the Director’s travel budget, unless
the Chair elects to pay for the Director’s trip expenses using the Chair’s discretionary
funds.
The Board of Directors may not incur expenses to any RTD departmental (except
Board Office) or non-departmental budget code. All incurred travel related-expenses
eligible for reimbursement by a Director must be charged to the Director’s travel
Budget.

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

For any travel in the last three months of service of a Director’s term, the District
cannot reimburse expenses for transit conferences to Directors who have not met
the statutory requirements to be placed on the ballot for re-election or who are term
limited. Special travel requests by these Directors to complete special projects or
those who have been approved to speak on behalf of the agency can be reviewed
for approval by the full Board, within budget limitations.

Commented [TSP4]: Removed as this is not currently practiced.

A Director is eligible for reimbursement for normal, customary event expenses
incurred by the Director, and a spouse, significant other, or guest, if the event is a
local, transit-related event sponsored by RTD. The expenses of the Director and the
Director’s spouse, significant other, or invited guest, are paid from the Director’s
local expense fund. (Resolution 002, Series of 2019).

Commented [TSP5]: Edited for inclusive language.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

4 of 19

Packet Pg. 41

While the Colorado Independent Ethics Commission has ruled that Article XXIX of
the State Constitution (also referred to as Amendment 41) pertaining to ethics in
government does not specifically apply to the RTD Board, the recommendation from
RTD’s General Counsel is for Directors to refrain from accepting anything of greater
than nominal value in the exercise of their official duties. A Director who attends, as
a function of his or her official duties, an meal or event for which the expected value
of attendance exceeds $5065.00 is responsible for the cost of the Director’stheir
attendance. Directors may submit itemized receipts for reimbursement, or the Board
Office can make arrangements prior to the meal or event and charge the cost to the
Director’s local expenses.
2.0.

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

Commented [TSP6]: Updated to match current guidelines.

Reimbursable Expenses

The following expense categories may be claimed as a necessary part of
conducting District business:
Travel:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Conference Registration fees
Air transportation
Business, conference, and training expenses
Ground transportation and tolls
Lodging and travel internet expenses
Advanced approved Rental car
Travel Per Diem

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Business, conference, and training expenses
Mileage for personal vehicles
Parking fees
Individual software licenses necessary for conducting RTD business
Postage for District business only
Subscription fees for relevant news publications
Toner cartridges
Other expenses identified for the benefit of the District, such as:
.1.
Event sponsorship fees
.2.
Office supplies
.3.
Town Hall or other special meeting supplies and refreshments
.4.
Meals and gratuities
.5.
Books and Reference materials
.6.
Printing costs
.7.
Organization Membership dues (example: Accelerate Colorado)

Local:

To protect the interest of the District and to provide guidelines for the Directors to
follow, the following provisions govern allowances for out of town and local business
related expenses within established budget limits. Only business expenses may be

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Commented [TSP7]: Added examples of "other expenses"
Formatted

Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.75", No bullets or numbering

5 of 19

Packet Pg. 42

claimed. The purchase of alcohol is not reimbursable and should not be reflected on
submitted receipts.

Commented [TSP8]: Removed due to redundancy.

In order to be eligible for reimbursement for an ordinary and necessary RTD business
related expense, the Director must submit a proper itemized receipt showing the cost,
time, date, business purpose, and the name and title of any qualifying attendee, if
applicable. An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in one’s field
of trade, business, or profession. Examples of ordinary and necessary local expenses
include mileage reimbursement, conference or seminar registration fees, parking,
business meeting expenses, and attendance at transit-related or community events
that are considered a necessary part of conducting District business. Political
meetings, partisan conferences, or political group activities cannot be covered as an
RTD expense.
In order to be reimbursed for local meals and event expenses, Directors must submit
an itemized receipt. If meetings between multiple Directors and either employees or
business contacts take place outside of the District office occur where a meal is
expensed, the meal costs are equally divided among the Directors attending and
charged to each Director’s local expense account accordingly. Directors are not
eligible for reimbursement for meals or event fees incurred by spouses, significant
others, or guests except as described in Section 1.0, General Policy.

Commented [TSP9]: Out of State travel covered with per diem.

Commented [TSP10]: Slight change to this section to identify
meal costs.

Commented [TSP11]: Inclusive Languge

In the event that RTD purchases a table for an event for which not all seats are
claimed by Directors and staff, a Director may request additional seats on a firstcome, first-served basis and may invite a guest at no cost to the Director’s local
expense account.
Any Expenses for mealsincidental local expenses submitted without a proper itemized
receipt and documentation of time, place and purpose will only be reimbursed up to
$10.00 at the discretion of the Chair.
In-person Board and/or Committee Meetings are typically arranged catered at for the
convenience of Directors to coincide with meal times and are considered a District
expense. If meetings between Directors and employees or business contacts take
place outside of the District offices, the meal cost will be equally divided among the
Directors attending and charged to their local expense accounts accordingly. If a
Director chooses to have a meal ordered for them by the Board Office, the cost of
the meal will be charged back to their local account. If a Director chooses to purchase
their own meal from a different vendor, In order to be reimbursed for these meal
costs, the Directors must provide an itemized receipt in order to be reimbursed for
the meal cost.

Commented [TSP12]: Updated to align with current practice.

Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for expenses, such as meals, flights,
hotels, etc., whether local or out-of-District, for any non-RTD transit-related business.
This includes expenses incurred by spouses, significant others, guests, or
dependents. In the event that a Director departs from an out-of-district event or
conference earlier than anticipated or stays longer than originally scheduled through
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

6 of 19

Packet Pg. 43

the Board Office, the Director cannot be reimbursed for meals or lodging fees for the
day or days of the early departure or late stay. For any additional airline fees or
charges incurred as the result of a flight change due to an early departure or late
stay, the Director must bear the cost as a personal expense.
The following expense categories may be claimed as a necessary part of
conducting District business:
• Registration fees (with approval and receipt only)
• Air transportation
• Ground transportation and tollsLodging and travel internet expenses
• Rental car
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Mileage for personal vehicles
Parking fees
Personal meals for out-of-town travel or approved local conferences, as
outlined in section 4
Business meeting expenses, both local and travel
Gratuities – housekeeping, transportation and restaurant with receipts
Cell phone fees associated with travel
Postage for District business only
Toner cartridgesOther expenses identified for the benefit of the District.

Commented [TSP13]: Section moved to Section 2 and split to
identify Local and Travel Expenses.

The following expenses are not authorized for reimbursement unless approved by the
Chair:
• Personal expenses such as personal hygiene items, magazines, in-room
movies, in-flight movies, pre pre-boarding fees, laundry, raincoats,
childcare, pet care, etc.
• Travel Trip insurance for flights and/or hotel
• Travel Insurance (note:
All Directors receive Travel and Accident
Insurance, which covers the Director while traveling on district business.
• Alcohol (Reference RTD Drug and Alcohol policy)
• Expenses that are of unusual non-ordinary nature
The Chair has discretion in approving Director expenses. If requested expenses do
not fall within the expense guidelines, the Chair must may seek advice and
recommendations from the Executive Committee.
This policy is not designed to provide guidance on every conceivable expense
reimbursement request, as such, Directors are encouraged to seek advanced preapproval for any potential expenses which are not explicitly covered elsewhere in this
document.
The Chair may authorize Director travel to locations for the purpose of coordinating
with governmental agencies, consultants, contractors, or for participation in
professional meetings deemed in RTD’s best interest. Attendance will be authorized
if the meeting offers a substantial benefit to the conduct of District business or
enhancing professional advancement of the Director.
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

Commented [TSP14]: Redundant.

7 of 19

Packet Pg. 44

3.0.

Travel Request Process
3.1. Reservations

Travel arrangements for the RTD Directors are typically handled by the Board Office.
Travel authorizations signed by the Chair are required for all travel. Directors should
contact the office at least 30 days in advance and provide all information needed to
complete the airline and hotel accommodations. If a Director chooses to make his or
her their own travel arrangements, all travel confirmations are to be provided to the
Board Office at the time of booking for the purpose of providing travel packets record
keeping and expense tracking.

Commented [TSP15]: Inclusive language.

When requesting travel arrangements, Directors should provide the following
information to the Board Office:
• Purpose of the tripConference Name
• Destination
• Requested arrival and departure dates/times
• Preferred airline and frequent flyer number (if applicable)
• Any applicable discounts, credits or travel miles to be utilized
• Special considerations
• Travel advance required

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

Formatted: Indent: Left: 1", No bullets or numbering

Unless prior approval is obtained, the Board Office arranges Directors’ travel on the
most economical fare for the required journey and makes every effort to book the
Directors their desired flights and host hotel accommodations. The Board Office
provides travel packets electronic travel confirmations to each Director with the flight
and hotel confirmations, transportation information, a copy of the event registration
and agenda, and other pertinent travel materials, including an envelope for receipts
and travel advance, if requested, as described in Section 3.2, Travel Advance.

Commented [TSP16]: Removed out of date language/updated.

Travel requests received less than seven business days before the scheduled trip are
processed based on the most current rates and availability. A travel approval must
be submitted prior to booking any travel, and a travel advance cannot be issued due
to such short notice.

Commented [TSP17]: Obsolete.

If a Director cancels their scheduled trip, any airline, conference, or hotel cancellation
penalties will be deducted from their travel and/or conference registration fee
account, as applicable.

Commented [TSP18]: Defines current practice.

3.2.

Travel Advance

Directors may request a travel advance up to the amount of the $200.00 for
estimated out-of-pocket expense that will be incurred, less any expenses paid directly
by RTD. Advances should be limited to expenses such as registration fees and
lodging (if not pre-paid by RTD), ground transportation, meals, and gratuities.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

8 of 19

Packet Pg. 45

A Director seeking a travel advance must request the advance for anticipated travel
expenses at least three weeks prior to the expected departure. Cash advances
cannot be granted unless sufficient funds are available in the requesting Director’s
budget account and are issued through General Accounting approximately five days
prior to departure. The Director is responsible for submitting the final expense form
within 30 days after return to the District and must remit any unused cash advance
monies to RTD in the form of a check at the time of submitting the final expense
form.
4.0.

Commented [TSP19]: No longer used.

Travel Arrangements
4.1.

Transportation
4.1.1. Air Transportation
Air transportation for travel to out-of-District conferences and events is typically
arranged by the RTD Board Office. Travel by indirect routes, or inclusion of side-trips
for personal reasons, must be approved by the Chair. Reimbursement for travel
expenses in a host city is allowed one day before the start of a conference or one
day following scheduled conference events where travel scheduling provisions or
same day flight times are not available or convenient, such as when a Director would
need to fly from Denver to Washington, D.C., on Saturday to arrive in time for a
conference with a start day of Sunday, and no flights are available for the Director
to arrive in time for the Sunday meeting start time.
Directors are responsible for any portion of ticket costs resulting from personal side
trips (including hotel, food, ground transportation, and parking). Airfare is calculated
on a pro-rated basis, but under no circumstance is RTD’s expense to exceed the
economy class or equivalent direct-route pricing.

Commented [TSP20]: Redundant.

If the RTD air travel is a portion of another planned flight that has been arranged
directly by the Director, a copy of the itinerary and ticket claiming reimbursement
must be provided to the Board Office at the time of booking and with the expense
report form.

Commented [TSP21]: No longer used.

A Director is responsible for any first-class, business class, stretch seating, and prorata boarding expenses.
A Director will be reimbursed costs associated with standard seat selection and
appropriate baggage fees if not selected at the time of ticket purchase.
i
Directors who wish to use their frequent flyer miles (if applicable) must provide the
Board Office with the frequent flyer number at the time of the booking. The Board
Office requests this information in advance, but it is the sole responsibility of the
Director to ensure his or her account has been credited with the frequent flyer mileage
information.

Commented [TSP22]: Included to reflect new realities of
flying.

All air transportation credits paid for by RTD are to be utilized in the booking of future
Director travel only and are not for personal use.
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

9 of 19

Packet Pg. 46

4.1.2. Ground Transportation
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for the actual expense of ground
transportation necessary to conduct official business. As a representative for the
transit agency, Directors are expected to utilize the most efficient, timely, and costeffective ground transportation when traveling locally or out of town, namely public
transit, shuttlebus service, transportation network company such as UBER or LYFT,
taxi, or rental car, in this order of preference. If a Director pays for the transportation
of other Directors or staff, all names are to be documented on the receipt and expense
report for reimbursement.
4.1.3. Car Rental
Car rental expenses are permitted only with prior approval of the RTD Board Chair
and only when absolutely necessary in the event that another means of transportation
is not feasible. Rental car arrangements should be made by the Board Office staff.
Travel between the airport and the hotel or conference center by rental car or other
means are eligible for reimbursement with receipts provided that the Chair has
authorized the rental.
The rental car should be contracted for a size appropriate for the number of
passengers. The Director must include a copy of the rental contract when submitting
the expense report. Reasonable parking and storage fees for rental cars may be
claimed for reimbursement. (Note: Travelers must ensure that adequate insurance
coverage is in place by purchasing optional insurance coverage as part of the rental
agreement. (Cars are to be refueled before returning to the rental agency.)
4.1.4. Personal Vehicles and Travel Outside the District Other Than
by Air
The use of personal vehicles outside of the District is not encouraged. Directors must
have the Chair’s approval prior to using a personal vehicle for official business outside
the boundaries of the District. This includes local conferences covered in Section
4.6, In-State Travel.
If approved, the milage reimbursement for out of state travel cannot exceed a
reasonable flight cost to and from the destination.
If a Director chooses to travel by car or long distance rail rather than by air, the Board
Office staff will follow established guidelines to determine the lowest available flight
cost to and from the destination. If use of a personal vehicle is requested, the
Director is eligible for reimbursement for the cost of mileage up to the maximum
allowable under the Internal Revenue Service guidelines but not to exceed the cost
of air travel to the destination. The cost of the air travel is to be determined by the
Board Office staff prior to the date of travel to determine the amount that may be
reimbursed for mileage. The determination is established by example of other
Director’s airfare for the same trip or by research of the lowest fares. All supporting
documentation must be submitted by the Board Office staff along with the Director’s
expense form.
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Commented [TSP23]: More efficient use of language.

10 of 19

Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

4.1.5. Mileage Reimbursement
The standard vehicle mileage allowance is determined annually by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Board Office verifies with the RTD Accounts Payable
Supervisor the most current rates at the start of each calendar year and includes this
amount in each Director’s local and travel expense spreadsheet.R
All local mileage incurred, including to and from the airport for local events and/or
travel, by a Director is paid through the local appropriate expense cost code to the
Director on all submitted travel expense forms. Round-trip travel to the airport locally
is included in this expense if agency-issued transit passes are unable to be used.
Director’s expense accounts will cover the first 30 miles of milage reimbursement
per event. Any milage that exceeds 30 miles will be charged to mileage-differential
and charged to a Board Office expense account.
4.2. Lodging (Hotel Accommodations)
The Board Office typically books lodging accommodations via P-Card for each
Director attending an out-of-District event. In the event these fees are not pre-paid,
the Director must submit a copy of the official hotel bill with the expense report when
claiming reimbursement.

Commented [TSP24]: Redundant.

Commented [TSP25]: Added to include local events and/or
travel.

Commented [TSP26]: Clarifies airport milage reimbursement.

Commented [TSP27]: This reflects the current practice that was
put into place some time ago to not punish directors who live further
away.

The Board Office makes reasonable arrangements at the single occupancy rate for
hotel accommodations in accordance with acceptable standards for that location.
For APTA conferences, hotel reservations cannot be booked until the attendee is
registered for the conference. Directors should inform the Board Office staff in a
timely manner they wish to attend a conference, otherwise the conference hotel
could fill up.
Hotels typically require a personal credit card for the person staying at the hotel for
purpose of incidental expenditures. Arrangements made via RTD P-Card only cover
room, and tax, and any other destination/mandatory fees (if applicable). Upon check
in, the Directors will need to provide the front desk with their own personal credit
cards for miscellaneous expenses. When checking out, Directors must ensure that
their personal credit cards were not charged for room and tax.

Commented [TSP28]: Updated to reflect new hotel billing
practices.

Note* For Directors using a debit or bank card to cover miscellaneous expenses, the
hotel may place a hold on the card in a set amount for the duration of the stay.
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for the actual cost of lodging, including room
charges, and taxes and fees. Charges other than room charges or taxes appearing
on the hotel bill may be reimbursable upon submittal of a completed, signed expense
report accompanied by itemized receipts. If Directors are unable or unwilling to stay
at the conference host hotel, must use sound judgment in the selection of lodging in
keeping with the purpose of the travel so as to minimize the cost to the District. it is
recommended that they adhere to GSA daily lodging rates. Lodging or hotel

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

11 of 19

Packet Pg. 48

accommodations billed to a P-Card require itemized receipts to match to the actual
incurred amount.

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

Commented [TSP29]: Updated to make language more efficient
and use existing GSA comparison resource.

When a Director is accompanied by another individual, the District is to be billed only
for the single-occupancy rate for lodging. The Director must pay for the difference
between single- and double-occupancy rate for the room, if applicable.
4.3. Meals Per Diem for Meals and Incidental Travel Expenses
Directors will be reimbursed a per diem amount according to the current federal
Continental United States (CONUS) published reimbursement rates to be used for the
cost of meals or other incidental travel expenses including housekeeping or baggage
fees and tips, snacks, drinks, etc. There is no need for a Director to submit receipts
for these items in their travel reimbursement request as they will receive the CONUS
per diem rate by travel location for each day of business travel, therefore, it is within
the Director’s discretion to determine the usage of this amount. This per diem
reimbursement amount will be adjusted annually in accordance with the General
Services Administration federal CONUS reimbursement rate.
Directors are eligible for reimbursement for daily personal meals and gratuities with
the submittal of an itemized receipt and documentation that identifies the time, place,
and business purpose.

Commented [TSP30]: Algins with new RTD Administrative
practice. Will sufficiently streamline travel reimbursement process
for all parties.

Directors may claim reimbursement for travel expenses, including meals and
gratuities, incurred one day before the start of a conference or one day following a
conference where travel scheduling provisions or same-day flight times are not
available or convenient, such as when a Director would need to fly from Denver to
Washington, D.C., on Saturday to arrive in time for a conference with a start day of
Sunday, and no flights are available for the Director to arrive in time for the Sunday
meeting start. Directors cannot be reimbursed for any day(s) that they may choose
to go early or stay late for personal reasons. (See Section 2.0, Reimbursable
Expenses.) Directors must provide itemized receipts for incurred travel-related
expenses.
When attending an out-of-District event or conference for which meals are provided,
Directors are expected to reduce the number of meals for which they intend to be
reimbursed by the number of meals that are provided at the event or conference.
However, a Director is eligible for reimbursement for a meal purchased outside of the
conference if the Director submits an itemized receipt explaining the business purpose
for the meal.
4.4. Miscellaneous Expenses
Miscellaneous expenses such as meal gratuities are to be included with each meal
and indicated on the receipt submitted with the expense report. Reasonable gratuities
for baggage handling at airports or the place of lodging upon arrival and departure
are allowable and must be shown as a separate item under “miscellaneous expense”
on the expense report. Baggage fees paid to airlines for travel must be accompanied
with a receipt. Gratuity for housekeeping during lodging is an allowable expense.
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

12 of 19

Packet Pg. 49

Directors are not eligible for reimbursement for personal calls. Calls for District
business are fully reimbursable as long as documentation related to the person called
and the subject of the call is included with the expense report. A Director who claims
reimbursement for monthly cell phone service may not claim a business call as a
separate, additional expense if the call is also included in the monthly service.
Directors traveling out of the country should coordinate with the Board Office to
determine the most cost-effective means of carrying out RTD-related communications
during the time the Director is traveling.
4.5.4.4.

Commented [TSP31]: Covered by per diem.

In State Travel

Directors travelling within the state but outside the District to attend seminars,
conferences, or transit-related meetings are eligible for reimbursement for travel
expenses so long as the location is more than two-hours’ driving distance each way
or greater than 160 miles from the point of origin. Covered expenses include
registration fees, lodging, standard mileage, and food when accompanied with valid
itemized receipts and expense reports showing time, place, and purpose. Directors
are not eligible for reimbursement for lodging expenses without the prior approval of
the Chair if the location of an event is within two-hours’ driving distance or less than
160 miles from the point of origin. For additional information regarding in state travel
see section 4.1.4 Personal Vehicles and Travel outside the District other than Air.
(Approved Travel and Local policy, November 20, 2007)
5.0.

Business Communications (cell phone, internet)

Within the first three months after being elected/appointed and subsequently sworn
in, Directors are eligible for reimbursement for an initial home office setup package
from their local expense account. Eligible equipment includes a smart phone, highspeed internet equipment such as a cable modem and router, fax machine, and
printer. The Director is responsible for selection, use, ownership, loss, and
replacement of all equipment after initial reimbursement by the District. Directors
may opt to purchase the equipment or utilize RTD-owned equipment. Equipment
purchased by Directors and reimbursed as part of the initial $700 set up fee is
considered RTD property.
Each Director, upon their request, will be provided an RTD issued and owned smart
phone and a laptop/tablet. RTD owned equipment is subject to RTD rules for the use
and handling of agency-owned equipment, including but not limited to policies
governing the type of information permitted to be stored or accessed on the computer
or smart phone. All equipment provided or purchased with funds that were later
reminbursed by the District remains the property of the District and must be returned
upon the Director’s departure from office. The total package selected is subject to
the $700 initial setup limit.
(Added per the changes in travel and local policy approved November 20, 2007)

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

13 of 19

Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

In the alternative, Directors may use their existing equipment or may acquire their
own equipment for use in conducting their official duties. To be eligible for
reimbursement for recurring IT expenses, a Director must submit on a monthly basis
documentary evidence such as a telephone and/or internet bill indicating the time,
place, amount paid. , and business purpose, which is sufficient to meet the IRS
requirement for time, place and business purpose for equipment purchase or usage.
The first land-line telephone into a home is considered personal and cannot be
reimbursed as a business expense. Monthly reimbursement claims that are not
accompanied by supporting documentation are not eligible for reimbursement.
Monthly IT reimbursements are capped at $140.00 per Director.
RTD IT covers the cost of each Director’s first technical home visit each year, for the
purpose of providing IT consultation and verification that the Director’s personal or
agency-provided hardware and equipment is in good working order. An outside
vendor, rather than an RTD staff member, is responsible for the technical home visit.
6.0.

Commented [TSP32]: No longer a practice.

Publications

Directors are eligible for an annual allowance of up to $95 for local publications.
Directors should identify, on an annual basis, publications to which they subscribe
and submit their subscription costs on their monthly local expense report.
(Added per the changes in travel and local policy approved November 14, 2006)
7.0.6.0.

Commented [TSP33]: Redundant as publication subscriptions
are included in local expenses.

Out of State Conference Registrations

Registration fees for conferences, workshops, or other approved events are typically
pre-paid directly by the Board Office. In circumstances where a Director pays for his
or her their own registration fees, the Director is eligible for reimbursement post travel
and must submit with the expense report, when claiming reimbursement, a receipt
or proof of registration fee paid and a copy of the program setting forth any fees for
registration.
The Board cannot exceed its budget allocations for conferences, seminars, and other
such events. Out-of-District registration fees for the first two sanctioned events for
each Director are not charged against the Director’s expenses,to the Directors
Conference Registration Fee budget subject to the limitations indicated below. Local
registration fees are charged to the Directors’ local expenses account. The Chair
monitors the Board expenditures on a quarterly basis.
7.1.6.1.

Commented [TSP34]: Inclusive language clarifying practice.

Commented [TSP35]: Added individual conference fee budgets
to promote transparency.

Local Conferences/Seminars

Directors are eligible for reimbursement for expenditures or fees incurred while
attending local seminars, technical meetings, or meetings related to professional
development upon submittal of a local expense report along with appropriate receipts.
Such fees are charged to the Director’s local expense budget account.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

14 of 19

Packet Pg. 51

7.2.

Out of Town Conferences

The Chair is responsible for reviewing Directors’ travel authorization requests to
attend out-of-District conferences, such as APTA conferences and Rail~Volution.
Each Director is permitted to attend up to two such sanctioned out-of-District
conferences each year. Budget permitting, the Chair may choose to permit individual
Directors to attend additional transit industry-related conferences. The Board Office
is responsible for registering attending Directors, and the office pays the registration
fees for the first two sanctioned conferences using the office’s general budget rather
than the Directors’ individual travel expense budgets.

Commented [TSP36]: Redundant.

8.0.7.0.

Commented [TSP37]: Talk to Vivian about this project.

Professional Affiliations/Membership Subscriptions

The Regional Transportation District encourages development of Directors through
active membership in professional organizations.
Although membership in
professional affiliations can be an indirect benefit to RTD as an organization, the main
benefit is the development of the Director, by allowing the Director to keep abreast
of trends in their transportation or technology, cultivate networks with other
professionals, and develop skills and ideas to become more effective in their policymaking at RTD. Any memberships that are of an extraordinary cost or that require
approval will go before the Executive Committee for approval.
Membership subscriptions in local chambers or approved organizations are processed
through the RTD Public Relations Office. Directors should submit their membership
requests through the Board office who will track and coordinate with the RTD staff
responsible for payment. Organizations must meet the criteria of being transit-related
and/or necessary to the conduct of business and local community involvement.
Membership requests that do not fit this criterion must be approved through the
General Manager’s budget. The Board policy on Organizational Memberships was
passed in August of 2011.
For budgeted events only, such as the Board Member/Board Support conference
hosted by the Board in 2015, the budget allocations for specific events serve as the
official authorization for the Chair to approve. For out-of-District budgeted events
only, the “RTD Travel Request and Authorization” form and the expense report
require approval from the Chair.
9.0.8.0.

Participation in Transit Related Community Events

A Director is eligible for reimbursement for normal, customary expenses associated
with attending an event for the Director and one guest, along with other approved
attendees as approved by the Chair, so long as the event is transit related. The
expenses of the Director and one guest are paid from the Director’s local expense
fund. The approved attendees will come from the general Board Office budget.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

15 of 19

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

Directors may sponsor a transit related community event with advance approval of
the Chair. Any sponsorship costs will be deducted from the Director’s local expense
account.
10.0.9.0.

Commented [TSP38]: Policy change to reflect City of Denver
practices.

Participation in Community Non-Transit Related Events

Participation in community non-transit related events is supported by RTD with
approval of the benefit to the agency. Such events are essential in getting the
community involved in the mission and vision of RTD. At times the General Manager
or RTD outreach departments purchase a table at a community event and invite
Directors as ambassadors for RTD at no cost to the Director.;
any Any other approved events are paid for out of the Director’s local expense
budget. Should a Director decide to purchase a table for an event in the Director’s
community with local expense funds, any unused seats are to be paid for out of the
Director’s local budget as well.
10.0. Ban on Political Expenditures
At no time can a Director’s expense funds or RTD funds be used for any event or
expenditure that is political in nature. For guidance on determining whether an event
or expenditure is political in nature, Directors should consult with RTD General
Counsel.

Formatted: Justified

Commented [TSP39]: Made into its own section.

11.0. Travel Insurance
RTD has in force a special Travel and Accident Policy for Directors while on official
business; therefore, additional travel insurance is not eligible for reimbursement.
12.0.11.0.

Commented [TSP40]: Redundant.

Expense Reports

12.1.11.1.

Travel Expense Reports

Pursuant to IRS guidelines, a Director must should submit a completed expense report
to the Board Office no later than the end of the month following the Director’s return
to the District. (e.g., If the trip was taken in October, the expense report is due no
later than by November 30th). The Executive Committee reserves the right to suspend
the provision of travel arrangements for any Director who is delinquent in submitting
an expense report. If extra time is needed to complete the expense report or the
Director has a valid reason for the delay, the Chair should be notified to make the
decision to extend this timeline.
The Board Office processes an one travel expense report, post travel, for each
Director traveling to an out-of-District conference or event. In order to provide
processing time for the staff to meet the deadline for submitting the reports to the
Chair, the Directors must submit original copies of all receipts, invoices, travel
itineraries, hotel bills, and associated include supporting documentation for expense
RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

16 of 19

Packet Pg. 53

reimbursement. Directors should submit a signed completed expense report to the
Board Office within two weeks after returning from the a trip.
12.2.11.2.

Commented [TSP41]: More efficient language. Clarifies
reimbursement process post travel.

Local Expense Reports

Pursuant to IRS guidelines, in order to receive reimbursement for local expenses, a
Director must submit a completed monthly local expense report to the Board Office
within 90 days of the date of the incurred expense. In the months in which no
expenses are incurred or in which the Director does not wish to claim any expense,
the Director must still submit a signed report for the reporting month with zero
balance. The Board Office will process one local expense report for each month a
Director requests reimbursement.

Commented [TSP42]: Clarifying that one expense report is
allowed for each month.

11.3. Local Expense Report Processing Calendar
Directors will submit their local expense reports to the Board Office according to the
following calendar. The Executive Committee reserves the right to suspend the
provision of reimbursement for any Director who is regularly delinquent in submitting
local expense reports.
•
•
•
•

January – March – Due by April 10th
April – June – Due by July 10th
July – September – Due by October 10th
October – December* – Due by December 10th

12.3.11.4.

Formatted: Justified

Formatted: Superscript
Formatted: Superscript
Formatted: Superscript
Formatted: Superscript

*RTD Accounts Payable will allow Directors to use November’s IT statements for
December processing.

Formatted: Justified, Indent: Left: 0.25"

Commented [TSP43]: Added to drive Board Office efficiency.
Formatted: Font: Univers, 11 pt

Expense Records

Formatted: Font: Not Bold

The Board Office keeps records of each Director’s submitted local and travel
expenses and provides to the Chair a quarterly summary upon request, a report of
all expenses incurred by the Directors. The Board Office retains a copy record of the
report all expenses for audit purposes. The Chair may request a written explanation
for any outstanding expense reports.

Formatted: Indent: Left: 1", No bullets or numbering

13.
Definitions
For purposes of this policy:
a. “Chair” means the Chair of the Board of Directors.
b. “IT expense” means an eligible expense attributed or attributable to
a Director’s IT expense budget as described in Section 1.0, General
Policy.
c. “Itemized receipt” means a printed receipt or document showing
the cost, time, date, and business purpose of the expense incurred,
along with the name and title of any other person whose individual
expense is also detailed on the receipt or document.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

17 of 19

Packet Pg. 54

d. “Local expense” means an eligible expense attributed or attributable
to a Director’s local expense budget as described in Section 1.0,
General Policy.
e. “Out-of-District” means outside of the contiguous Regional
Transportation District and its non-contiguous enclaves.
f. “Travel expense” means an eligible expense attributed or
attributable to a Director’s travel expense budget as described in
Section 1.0, General Policy.

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

Commented [TSP44]: Unnecessary.

18 of 19

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

Document Owner:
Author:
Effective Date:
Revision Date:
Purpose:

Attachment: 2023-09-07 Board Expense and Travel Policy - Redline DRAFT (4822 : Board Expense Policy Update)

1.5.4.c

RTD Board of Directors
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager for Board of
Directors Board Office
TBD, 2024
March 26, 2019 TBD, 2023
This document replaces and updates Regional
Transportation District Policy, Board of Directors
Business and Conference Expenses Policy and
Procedures Manual adopted March 23, 1999.March 26,
2019.

Approval/s (if applicable)

Version
BOD001
BOD002
BOD003

BOD004
BOD005

Date
1999-1021
2001-1114
2007-1120
08/10
2012-0822

BOD006

BOD007
BOD008
BOD009

2016-1129
2019-0326
2023-TBD

Change History
Change Definition
Board Travel Policy Dates and Amounts from Amy
Caldwell
Updates & incorporates all related Board Policies and
Guidelines into one document
Updates & incorporates all changes made to the Board
Local, Travel and Telecommunications Reimbursement
Policies approved at the 11/20/07 Board Meeting.
Updates to provide summarization of changes

Updates to follow agency guidelines of Travel and
Business expenses directive revised and approved
2013-02-06
Update approved by full Board
Administrative changes and clarifications; addition of
definitions section.
Administrative changes, clarifications, addition of
Travel Per Diem

RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual

19 of 19

Packet Pg. 56

1.5.5

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Executive Session Zoom Recording Access

September 21, 2023

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the RTD Board of Directors conducted most of its business in-person.
This business often included meeting in executive session. Per C.R.S. 24-6-402(2)(d.5)(II)(A), executive
sessions must be electronically recorded, with the one exception that privileged attorney-client
communication need not always be recorded.
RTD Board of Directors executive sessions recordings are maintained by the Board Office. Due to the
recordings being held on legacy media devices, often tape recorders, any Board members wishing to
review the content of an Executive Session are currently asked to physically come to the RTD
administrative offices at 1660 Blake St. to view the recordings.
However, the COVID-19 pandemic necessitated the RTD Board of Directors to meet virtually. Meeting
virtually has continued as a way of good practice to ensure greater accessibility to Board meetings. Over
the past three years, the RTD Board of Directors has met in executive session via Zoom either out of
necessity or for convenience and accessibility. Given that Zoom recordings of executive sessions now
exist as shareable electronic files, the Executive Committee is being asked to revisit the standing
practice of the Board Office that executive sessions recorded on Zoom be accessible only to Directors
who travel to 1660 Blake St.
DISCUSSION
The Executive Committee is asked to consider whether to allow Directors the ability to access Zoom
recordings of executive sessions remotely. If there is consensus among the Executive Committee to
allow for recordings to be reviewed remotely, the Board Office will accommodate future requests. If
there is consensus not to allow remote access to these recordings, the Board Office will continue with
the current practice of asking Directors to physically travel to 1660 Blake St. to review the recordings.
This discussion aligns with the Strategic Priority of Employee Ownership as it will provide greater clarity
to the Board Office on how to best implement the standing practices of the RTD Board of Directors.
FINANCIAL IMPACT

Packet Pg. 57

1.5.5

No significant financial impact.

Prepared by:
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 58

2.17.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
GM/CEO Compensation Philosophy

September 11, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
September 26, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to approve the General Manager and CEO (GM/CEO) Compensation
Philosophy.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer
Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive Manager
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
During the February 15, 2023, Performance Committee (committee) meeting, committee members
reached a consensus that the processes for evaluating both the performance of the GM/CEO and of the
agency itself (evaluation processes) could be enhanced.
The committee members reviewed the following materials during the April 12, 2023, meeting:
• The 2021-2026 Strategic Plan adopted by the Board of Directors on August 10, 2021
• The GM/CEO Employment Agreement (contract) entered into on September 29, 2020, and most
recently amended in the Fourth Amendment agreed to on October 26, 2022
• The Compensation Study Report completed by Gallagher dated November 18, 2022
Further, committee members agreed to explore possible strategies and opportunities to enhance the
evaluation processes.
On June 5, 2023, the Chief People Officer delivered a compensation philosophy presentation, from an
objective human resources perspective, detailing the considerations, factors, types, and components to
be considered in developing said philosophy.
On June 26, 2023, the committee convened an executive session for consideration of the
compensation, performance appraisal, and employment agreement for the current GM/CEO, to receive
legal advice, as well as to hear from the current GM/CEO, regarding these topics.
On July 17, 2023, the committee convened for subsequent consideration of a draft compensation
philosophy. After fulsome dialogue and consideration, the committee asked that the draft compensation
philosophy be circulated to the full Board for further input, edits, and consideration.

Packet Pg. 59

2.17.A

Suggested edits have since been incorporated into the draft compensation philosophy. It was agreed
that the amended compensation philosophy would return to the committee for review and
recommendation to the full Board at the September 2023 monthly Board meeting.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this recommended action, the Board will honor its commitment to establish a compensation
philosophy for the GM/CEO as noted in the 2010 State Audit on Executive Compensation Practices.
A compensation philosophy is a foundational document from which the Board can establish a base salary
compensation range for the GM/CEO position. Further, effective January 1, 2021, the Colorado Equal
Pay for Equal Work Act requires employers with one or more employees to include the rate of
compensation or a compensation range; a general description of bonuses, commissions, or other
compensation; and a general description of all employment benefits offered for the position, including
healthcare benefits, retirement benefits, paid time off, and any tax reportable benefits when posting a
position. Therefore, the agency has defined a salary range for every other position within the agency,
except the GM/CEO position.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with the Board’s adoption of this recommended action.
Regardless of the base salary compensation range established for the GM/CEO’s position, the total
compensation of any seated GM/CEO is negotiable and must be agreed to by both the Board and
GM/CEO.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

20230911_Performance Committee_Compensation Philosophy_MissionStatementAdded_Blackline_Final Amended

•

20230911_Performance Committee_Compensation Philosophy_MissionStatementAdded_Redline

(DOCX)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 60

2.17.A

Packet Pg. 61

Compensation Philosophy for the GM/CEO (draft as of 8/31/2023)

RTD’s mission to make lives better through connections and vision to be the trusted transit leader in
mobility, delivering excellence, and value to our customers and community requires the expertise of a
highly skilled and seasoned executive capable of leading and inspiring an innovative, complex, and
unique multi-modal transit agency.
An overarching goal of the Board of Directors is to attract, motivate and retain the requisite executive
talent necessary to achieve the agency’s mission and vision. The Board further acknowledges that
competition to attract a GM/CEO with the required suite of competencies, knowledge, and experience
is extremely challenging given the highly specialized transit environment. Therefore, RTD must be market
competitive on a Northern American scale in both public and private sectors when considering talent
acquisition and retention.
Furthermore, the following principles will guide the components of the GM/CEO’s total compensation.
Total compensation will be designed to:
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

Demonstrate internal equity, fairness, and transparency while being externally market
competitive, aligned to the 50th percentile of comparable public transit agencies, and related
public and private sectors where executive talent may reside
Comprise a component of pay-for-performance designed to motivate and incent performance
and retention
Incent agency, team, and individual performance aligned to the agency’s strategic objectives and
directly linked to a pay-for-performance framework
Provide appropriate opportunities for personal and professional development
Recognize the value in compensation components that directly support the health and welfare
of the GM/CEO today (e.g., health [including dedicated executive health benefits], dental, vision,
PTO, executive leave) and into the future (e.g., deferred compensation, retiree health benefits)
Consider specific agency variables (e.g., size, values, strategic goals, stage of evolution,
geographical markets)
Recognize and respect the agency’s fiscal reality and the commitment to responsible stewardship
of public tax dollars and customer revenue
Adapt nimbly to changing external (e.g., labor market) and internal circumstances (e.g., fiscal
restraints)
Be reviewed for market competitiveness and legislative/regulatory compliance (local, state, and
federal) on an annual basis

Additionally, the GM/CEO’s performance will be formally assessed on an annual basis.
Further, should the GM/CEO be employed with a term contract, the Board will endeavor to hold
meaningful discussion about extending the term of such contract no later than 18 months prior to the
expiration of the contract’s term.

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: 20230911_Performance Committee_Compensation Philosophy_MissionStatementAdded_Blackline_Final Amended (4815 :

2.17.A.a

2.17.A.b

RTD’s mission to make lives better through connections and vision to be the trusted transit leader in
mobility, delivering excellence, and value to our customers and community requires the expertise of a
highly skilled and seasoned executive capable of leading and inspiring an innovative, complex, and
unique multi-modal transit agency.
The overarching goal of the Board of Directors is to attract, motivate and retain the requisite executive
talent necessary to achieve the agency’s mission and vision. The Board further acknowledges that
competition to attract a GM/CEO with the required suite of competencies, knowledge, and experience
is extremely challenging given the highly specialized transit environment and tight labor market.
Therefore, RTD must be market competitive on a Northern American scale in both public and private
sectors when considering talent acquisition and retention.
Furthermore, the following principles will guide the components of the GM/CEO’s total compensation.
Total compensation will be designed to:
•

•
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

Demonstrate internal equity, fairness, and transparency while being externally market
competitive, aligned to the 50th percentile of comparable public transit agencies, and related
public and private sectors where executive talent may reside
Comprise a component of pay-for-performance designed to motivate and incent performance
and retention
Incent agency, team, and individual performance aligned to the agency’s strategic objectives
and directly linked to a pay-for-performance framework
Provide appropriate opportunities for personal and professional development
Recognize the value in compensation components that directly support the health and welfare
of the GM/CEO today (e.g., health [including dedicated executive health benefits], dental, vision,
PTO, executive leave) and into the future (e.g., deferred compensation, retiree health benefits)
Consider specific agency variables (e.g., size, values, strategic goals, stage of evolution,
geographical markets)
Recognize and respect the agency’s fiscal reality and the commitment to responsible
stewardship of public tax dollars and customer revenue
Adapt nimbly to changing external (e.g., labor market) and internal circumstances (e.g., fiscal
restraints)
Be reviewed for market competitiveness and legislative/regulatory compliance (local, state, and
federal) on an annual basis

Additionally, the GM/CEO’s performance will be formally assessed on an annual basis.
Further, sShould the GM/CEO be employed with a term contract, the Board will endeavor to hold
meaningful discussion about extending the term of such contract no later than 18 months prior to the
expiration of the contract’s term.

1
Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: 20230911_Performance Committee_Compensation Philosophy_MissionStatementAdded_Redline (4815 : GM/CEO Compensation

Performance Committee Meeting - July 17, 2023
Draft (as of 8/1/2023) compensation philosophy for the GM/CEO:

2.17.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP)

September 12, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
September 26, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt the 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP).
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager, Budget
BACKGROUND
The 2024-2029 MTFP is the six-year financial forecast used as the basis for the development of the
2024 Budget and provides guidance for future year financial planning. The development of this forecast
seeks to balance planned expenditures with anticipated available funding sources in alignment with
RTD’s Strategic Plan. Adoption of the 2024-2029 MTFP by the Board is not a commitment or
appropriation of funding.
DISCUSSION
The 2024-2029 MTFP projects that the agency’s forecasted revenues and reserves are sufficient to
meet expected operational, debt service and asset management expenditures while maintaining reserves
as required by the Board approved RTD Fiscal Policy. While RTD’s financial position is forecasted to
meet the Strategic Priority of Financial Success through 2029, vigilance will be required to ensure the
agency maintains activities within the projected fiscal constraints. The 2024-2029 MTFP was developed
in consideration of a prudent, fiscally sustainable approach including provisions such as restrained sales
and use tax growth projections resulting from Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR) implications. The result of
this forecast is a presentation of a fiscally conservative plan that allows for agility and scalability over
the six-year period.
2024-2029 MTFP Assumptions
• Fare revenue is based on current trends in ridership as well as the Systemwide Fare Study and
Equity Analysis provisions. Ridership is forecast to increase 9.7% in 2024 due to lower fares and
increase 2.0% annually thereafter. A modest fare increase is assumed in 2027 subject to
additional future discussions
• Sales and use tax projections provided in August 2023 by the University of Colorado Leeds
School of Business project a $31.7 million decrease over the March 2023 forecast. The decrease
is primarily due to weaker collections during 2023 and lower year-over-year growth due to
forecasted Base System growth capped at 1.4% after 2024 for TABOR limits. The 1.4% Base
System growth assumption matches the assumptions from Reimagine RTD in which growth was
capped at the growth rate of property taxes in alignment with TABOR revenue growth limits

Packet Pg. 64

2.17.B

•
•
•

Operating expenses increase at an annual rate of 5.1% over the six-year MTFP period due to
inflationary assumptions. Limited increases to headcount are assumed
Asset management expenditures are included that maintain assets in a state of good repair based
on current information
Reserves are projected to increase $191.5 million during the six-year MTFP to ensure that
operating reserves of three months expenses and a capital replacement fund are maintained as
required by fiscal policies

Current Outlook
• The 2024-2029 period balances funding sources and uses while maintaining reserves
• Service levels reflect the System Optimization Plan requirements
• Funding is maintained to address the asset management backlog, plus reserves for future needs
• Debt service coverage ratio policy of 1.2x is met each year
• Reserves of three months operating expenses are met in each year
• Base System funding will continue to supplement FasTracks
• Limited new projects are included
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2024-2029 MTFP projects balanced funding sources and uses while meeting asset management
needs and fiscal policy requirements for reserves and debt service coverage ratios.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager, Budget
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 65

2.17.B

Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

2024-2029 Mid-term
Financial Plan (MTFP)
Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager, Budget
September 7, 2023

Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

2024-2029 MTFP
§ Six-year forecast
§ Strategic financial planning
§ Establishes 2024 Budget baseline
§ Not an appropriation

September 7, 2023

2

Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

2024-2029 MTFP (cont’d)
§ Fare revenue lower than previous forecasts
§ Sales and use taxes slightly lower
§ Sustainable service levels
§ Asset maintenance fully funded
§ Fund balances maintained

September 7, 2023

3

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

2024-2029 MTFP (cont’d)
§ Strategic plan implementation
§ Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR) limits
§ Economic volatility

September 7, 2023

4

Packet Pg. 70

Revenue – Sept. 2023 vs. Sept. 2022

September 7, 2023
5

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 71

Expenditures – Sept. 2023 vs. Sept. 2022

September 7, 2023
6

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 72

2024-2029 MTFP Base System ($ in thousands)
Base System

Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grant revenue and other income
COVID-19 relief grants

Amended
Budget
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2023-2029
$ 41,572 $ 44,112 $ 46,517 $ 48,621 $ 53,271 $ 54,337 $ 55,424 $
343,853
554,019
554,088
561,845
569,711
577,687
585,774
593,975
3,997,098
221,244
231,959
230,691
265,502
265,245
265,081
270,015
1,749,737
-

Total Revenue

816,835

830,158

839,052

883,834

896,203

905,193

919,414

6,090,688

Operating expense less depreciation
Debt service
Cap Ex/State of good repair

(679,490)
(84,410)
(55,803)

(582,863)
(51,051)
(64,050)

(594,014)
(41,744)
(56,291)

(621,332)
(33,243)
(65,884)

(605,739)
(22,157)
(65,567)

(594,608)
(7,080)
(91,429)

(581,663)
(7,081)
(113,021)

(4,259,708)
(246,765)
(512,045)

Total Expenditures

(819,703)

(697,963)

(692,048)

(720,460)

(693,462)

(693,116)

(701,765)

(5,018,518)

Net Cash Flow

$

(2,868) $ 132,195 $ 147,004 $ 163,374 $ 202,740 $ 212,076 $ 217,649 $ 1,072,170

September 7, 2023

Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

2023-2028 MTFP FasTracks ($ in thousands)
FasTracks

Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grant revenue and other income
COVID-19 relief grants

Amended
Budget
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2023-2029
$ 18,677 $ 19,818 $ 20,899 $ 21,844 $ 23,934 $ 24,412 $ 24,900 $
154,484
369,346
369,392
387,202
405,833
422,687
440,367
460,782
2,855,609
-

Total Revenue

388,023

389,210

408,101

427,677

446,620

464,779

485,683

3,010,093

Operating expense less depreciation
Debt service
Cap Ex/State of good repair

(218,681)
(166,067)
(1,800)

(269,232)
(172,233)
-

(342,513)
(187,310)
-

(350,865)
(218,926)
-

(397,980)
(260,108)
-

(453,475)
(261,129)
-

(512,137)
(252,257)
-

(2,544,884)
(1,518,030)
-

Total Expenditures

(386,548)

(441,466)

(529,823)

(569,791)

(658,088)

(714,604)

(764,394)

(4,064,714)

Net Cash Flow

$

1,475 $ (52,256) $ (121,722) $ (142,114) $ (211,468) $ (249,825) $ (278,711) $ (1,054,621)

September 7, 2023

Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

2024-2029 MTFP Total ($ in thousands)
Total

Fares
Sales and use taxes
Grant revenue and other income

Amended
Budget
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2023-2029
$ 60,249 $ 63,930 $ 67,416 $ 70,465 $ 77,205 $ 78,749 $ 80,324 $
498,338
923,365
923,479
949,047
975,544 1,000,373 1,026,141 1,054,758
6,852,707
221,244
231,959
230,691
265,502
265,245
265,081
270,015
1,749,737

Total Revenue

1,204,858

1,219,368

1,247,153

1,311,511

1,405,097

9,100,781

Operating expense less depreciation
Debt service
Cap Ex/State of good repair

(898,171)
(250,477)
(57,603)

(852,095)
(223,284)
(64,050)

(936,526)
(229,054)
(56,291)

(972,197) (1,003,719) (1,048,083) (1,093,800)
(252,169)
(282,264)
(268,209)
(259,338)
(65,884)
(65,567)
(91,429)
(113,021)

(6,804,591)
(1,764,795)
(513,845)

Total Expenditures

(1,206,251) (1,139,429) (1,221,871) (1,290,251) (1,351,550) (1,407,720) (1,466,159)

(9,083,232)

Net Cash Flow

$

(Contribute to)/use of reserves
Reserves
September 7, 2023

(1,393) $
-

1,342,823

1,369,972

79,939 $

25,282 $

21,260 $

(8,727) $ (37,749) $ (61,063) $

12,513

(39,000)

(33,000)

(37,000)

(45,000)

(50,000)

17,549
(191,487)

$ 391,926 $ 736,200 $ 761,482 $ 782,742 $ 774,014 $ 736,266 $ 675,203
9

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

2024-2029 MTFP Total ($ in thousands)

September 7, 2023
10

Attachment: 09.12.23 2024-2029 MTFP (4811 : 2024-2029 Mid-term Financial Plan (MTFP))

2.17.B.a

Packet Pg. 76

2.17.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Committee Meeting Date:
September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions

September 13, 2023
Board Meeting Date:
September 26, 2023

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to the Customer Code of Conduct.

DIRECTORS
Kate Williams, Chair, Operations and Safety Committee
Michael Guzman, Director – District C
PRESENTATION LENGTH
15 minutes
BACKGROUND
The RTD Act, Article 9 of Title 32, Colorado Revised Statutes, authorizes the district to develop,
maintain, and operate a mass transportation system for the benefit of the inhabitants of the district.
In order to provide for personal safety, convenience, and comfort of all customers, the agency has
established a Customer Code of Conduct (Code) setting forth rules prohibiting certain conduct that may
adversely affect use, operation, or occupancy of RTD vehicles, facilities, or property. To enforce this
Code, RTD has established a Service Suspension Policy (Policy) setting forth procedures and
enforcement guidelines.
The Code and Policy are tools in an overarching strategy to maintain a welcoming transit environment
for all RTD employees and customers.
At the June 2023 Board Meeting, following months of discussion and on-going feedback, the Board of
Directors adopted a revised Code as well as a new Policy. At that meeting, Director Guzman had
planned to offer a series of amendments to the Code. However, to afford the Board more time to
consider the amendments and to follow the best practice of having recommended actions first
considered by a standing committee, Director Guzman agreed to withhold offering amendments at the
June meeting. Subsequently, Director Williams, as Chair of the Operations and Safety Committee
committed to considering select amendments to the Code from Director Guzman at an Operations and
Safety Committee meeting. The July Operations and Safety Committee agenda was too full to
accommodate the discussion, so the September meeting was selected by Committee Chair Williams as
the meeting to hear proposed amendments as a recommended action. Per the RTD Board of Director
Bylaws, the Chair of a Committee may place items on the agenda. (Article VI, Section 1, b).

Packet Pg. 77

2.17.C

DISCUSSION
This recommended action seeks Board approval to modify the Code with four straightforward changes to
four rules in order to:
•
•
•

Clarify rules
Simplify language
Eliminate redundancy

Director Guzman developed these proposed changes based on community and customer feedback and
met with the General Manager and CEO on Monday, July 24, 2023 to discuss his proposed changes.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no substantive financial impact associated with the adoption of this recommended action.
ATTACHMENTS:
•

Guzman Code of Conduct Amendments with Rationale

(PDF)

•

2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Clean

(PDF)

•

2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Redline

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jack Kroll, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 78

2.17.C.a
We make lives better
through connections.

Proposed Amendments to the Respect the Ride/Code of Conduct Rules
Introduction:
Thank you for your willingness to review these suggestions and engage in discussion about the merit of each.
Below I have proposed five amendments to the Code of Conduct as approved by the Board at the June 2023
meeting.
For the purposes of the following suggested amendments, strikes or modifications all reference the finalized
code of conduct document on file with the Board Office.
Each proposed amendment is contained on its own page in this document and I have included the rule number,
as well as the rule as written prior to the June changes, the current language of the rule as updated following
the Board’s June changes, and my proposed amendment in red. I have also provided some brief rationale for
each proposed change.
The first three of the following are important to constituents of District C. There is one more amendment I
offer for consideration, as I believe it is a commonsense adjustment which will assist in clarifying and simplifying
the rule for the benefit of employees and customers. I hope all will be considered by the Operations and Safety
Committee and reviewed by staff for any advice or legal requirements.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: Guzman Code of Conduct Amendments with Rationale (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Michael Guzman
Director District C

2.17.C.a

Subject:
Page 2

Code of Conduct Rule: 27
Previous Rule 27 Prior to June 2023 Changes:
Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility (subject to ADA reasonable
modification; see Code Section IV).
Current Rule 27:
Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility when seating is limited, and customer
demand is high. This section is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV.
Proposed Amendment to Rule 27:
Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility when seating is limited. , and
customer demand is high. This section is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV
Rationale:
●
●
●

The amendment is for clarity, not to change the intent.
It is based on multiple constituents and stakeholder groups stating that “customer demand is high” was
confusing; if “seating is limited” is clearly stated.
Removes redundancy

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: Guzman Code of Conduct Amendments with Rationale (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Proposed Amendment One

2.17.C.a

Subject:
Page 3

Code of Conduct Rule: 28
Previous Rule 28 Prior to June 2023 Changes:
Entering or remaining on RTD property or vehicle while a person is so severely impaired by the consumption of
alcohol or by the taking of any drugs that the person is unable to function safely in the environment of a transit
system.
Current Rule 28:
Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while significantly and severely impaired by the consumption
of alcohol or the use of drugs, thus impacting the ability to safely function in a transit system environment.
Proposed Amendment to Rule 28:
Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while so significantly and severely impaired by the
consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs that the customer is unable thus impacting the ability to safely
function in a transit system environment use RTD’s transportation services.
Rationale:
● This is based on customer feedback
● “Impacting” invites even more subjectivity and this amendment offers some clarity.
● We want to encourage individuals to use RTD when we know that public transit is part of public safety
campaigns, e.g. - NYE & “Don’t drink and drive!”

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: Guzman Code of Conduct Amendments with Rationale (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Proposed Amendment Two

2.17.C.a

Subject:
Page 4
Proposed Amendment Three
Attachment: Guzman Code of Conduct Amendments with Rationale (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Code of Conduct Rule: 40
Previous Rule 40 Prior to June 2023 Changes:
Leaving needles in RTD restrooms except in designated Sharps Disposal Containers.
Current Rule 40:
Leaving needles in RTD restrooms except in designated Sharps Disposal Containers.
Proposed Amendment to Rule 40:
Rewrite as follows:
Failing to use designated sharps disposal containers to dispose of sharps waste.
Rationale:
●

Medical sharps waste is not limited to just needles.

●

Removes prejudice, stigma, and bias from the language; while stating the expected behavior

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 82

2.17.C.a

Subject:
Page 5

Code of Conduct Rule: 16
Previous Rule 16 Prior to June 2023 Changes:

This rule was added during the June 2023 update to the Code of Conduct
Current Rule 16:
Engaging in language that is violent, profane, or calculated to provoke a breach of the peace. This includes
but is not limited to fighting words or threatening language that causes others to fear for their safety.
Proposed Amendment to Rule 16:
Engaging in language that is violent, profane, or calculated to provoke a breach of the peace. This includes but
is not limited to fighting words or threatening language that causes others to fear for their safety.
Rationale:
●
●
●
●
●
○

“Not limited to” is unnecessary.
Clarity, reduces conflict and helps all stakeholders.
This type of explicit behavior, here-in defined, is covered under rules against harassment - as it is to cause
another to fear for their safety.
Also it is redundant, but a clarified version.
See Rule # 15 - Current Customer Code of Conduct.
Engaging in harassm ent , sexual harassment, or bullying. This includes offensive behavior, unwelcome conduct
of a sexual nature, or abusive, repeated conduct directed toward an individual because of their sex, race, color,
national origin, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, ancestry, age, military
status, disability, genetic information, or any other status protected by law. (emphasis added)

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: Guzman Code of Conduct Amendments with Rationale (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Proposed Amendment Four

2.17.C.b

Customer Code of Conduct
The Regional Transportation District makes lives better through connections, whether that is connecting a customer
with their final destination or the connections that happen with others on the system. To support all types of
connections, RTD asks its customers to follow a set of behavioral guidelines called Respect the Ride.
Respect the Ride focuses on providing a safe, convenient, and enjoyable experience for all customers,
while also discouraging disruptive or antisocial behaviors.
Being respectful of other customers and considerate to RTD’s employees does not take more than common courtesy.

Purpose:
RTD is committed to offering safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and cost-effective transportation throughout
the District to all constituents.
RTD strives to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and has equal access to transportation. In order to provide for
the safety, convenience, and comfort of all persons, RTD has established this Code of Conduct (Code) setting forth
rules prohibiting certain conduct that may adversely affect use, operation, or occupancy of RTD vehicles (including
RTD buses, Access-a-Ride vehicles, FlexRide vehicles, light rail vehicles, and commuter rail vehicles), facilities
(including bus and rail stations, parking facilities, bus stops, bus shelters, plazas and fountains, and administrative,
operational, and maintenance facilities), or property.
Prior to enforcement, RTD will make every attempt to first educate a person on conduct prohibited by
this Code. However, any person who engages in prohibited conduct may be subject to enforcement ranging from a
verbal or written warning, immediate suspension, or a criminal citation (see Section 5: “Enforcement”).
Conduct prohibited by this Code is subject to reasonable modification under the Americans with Disabilities Act (see
Section 4: “The ADA and Reasonable Modification”)

Authority:
This Code of Conduct was initially approved on December 20, 2016, by RTD’s Board of Directors and thereafter
amended on July 21, 2020, and June 27, 2023.

Prohibited Conduct:
A person, including any combination of persons of any nature whatsoever (including but not limited to companies,
clubs, associations, corporations, partnerships, and public entities) is prohibited from committing, attempting to
commit, or assisting any other person or combination of persons to commit, the following acts in or on any RTD
vehicle, facility, or property.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Clean (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

We make lives better
through connections.

2.17.C.b

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 2

1. Being within any RTD fare-paid area without prior payment of the proper fare.
2. Failing to possess or purchase valid fare when accessing RTD’s transit services. Riding an RTD vehicle without
proper fare or complying with RTD fare payment management systems (including but not limited to failure to
obtain and keep evidence of payment such as transfers and tickets; failure to validate a mobile ticket; and
failure to tap smart card media in accordance with RTD procedures).
3. Failing to obey any request from RTD to stand behind warning strips (including yellow tactile strips) or within
other safe locations on RTD vehicles or property.
4. Failing to exit an RTD vehicle once fare media has expired or upon reaching its final destination.
5. Unauthorized presence in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property after hours of operation.
6. Unauthorized presence on any RTD property that is not open to the public.
7. Crossing RTD rail tracks at any location other than at a traffic- or pedestrian-controlled intersection or at a
designated pedestrian crossing.
8. Violating the terms of or failing to have possession of an RTD Facilities Vendor License or Use Permit when
required. Commercial activity and certain other activities that, for example, involve use of equipment or may
attract large crowds require such a license or permit.

Smoking / Eating / Drinking / Littering
9. Smoking or vaping any substance including but not limited to tobacco (as defined in the Colorado Clean Indoor
Air Act), or use of chewing tobacco, on any RTD vehicle or within any prohibited area. “Prohibited area” for
purposes of this rule includes:
1. Any RTD facility or property where smoking is prohibited by state or local law.
2. Any indoor RTD facility.
3. Any outdoor or enclosed RTD facility or property where “no smoking” signs are posted.
4. The area within a radius of 15 feet of the main entry or doorway to an indoor RTD facility.
10. Consuming any alcoholic beverage or marijuana or possessing an open container of any alcoholic beverage or
marijuana in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property.
11. Bringing open food or beverage containers onto RTD vehicles. Food must be kept in a sealed or resealable
containers, and beverages must be sealed or in a spill-proof container. Eating on any RTD vehicle is only
allowable to the extent that it is medically necessary.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Clean (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Fares / Locations

2.17.C.b

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 3

13. Littering (including spilled food or liquids).

Disturbances
14. Engaging in disruptive behavior that materially interferes with other customers utilizing or accessing RTD
services or materially interferes with RTD personnel performing official duties
15. Engaging in harassment, sexual harassment, or bullying. This includes offensive behavior, unwelcome conduct
of a sexual nature, or abusive, repeated conduct directed toward an individual because of their sex, race, color,
national origin, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, transgender status, pregnancy, ancestry, age,
military status, disability, genetic information or any other status protected by law.
16. Engaging in language that is violent, profane, or calculated to provoke a breach of the peace. This includes
fighting words or threatening language that causes customers, RTD employees, or RTD contractors to fear for
their safety.
17. Operating any device used to listen to music or other sound (other than a mobile phone when being used for
communications) without earphones or at such a loudness level that the sound still causes a disturbance.
18. Use of a bull horn or similar device to willfully disrupt the provision of transit services or public safety.
19. Soliciting or otherwise engaging in unwanted conversation with any other person while such person is a captive
audience (i.e., while standing in line for or riding in a vehicle).
20. Engaging in activities not authorized by RTD’s Facilities Use Policy.

Occupancy
21. Taking any animal into an RTD indoor facility, onto a vehicle or within a fare paid area unless: (1) the animal
is intended and trained to assist a person with a disability; (2) the animal is in training to assist a person with
a disability; or (3) the animal is in an appropriate animal carrier (including locked, standard commercial
containers in the underfloor luggage bays of regional bus coaches). All animals must have proof of current
vaccinations required by the local jurisdictions in which the animals are traveling.
22. Obstructing customers with disabilities from accessing features necessary to use transit services such as ramps,
lifts, assigned seating areas, and high blocks.
23. Possessing or transporting large items that restrict the reasonable and safe movement of customers on or
around transit vehicles and facilities.
24. Possessing or transporting any flammable liquid, combustible material, or other dangerous or hazardous item
or substance such as gasoline, kerosene, or propane, including in a canister or machinery.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Clean (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

12. Distributing or posting handbills on RTD vehicles or property, or on vehicles parked on RTD property, except
as otherwise authorized by RTD’s Facilities Use Policy.

2.17.C.b

25. Carrying any weapon, dangerous instrument (including but not limited to switchblade knife, gravity knife, box
cutter, straight razor, razor blade not wrapped or enclosed in a protective covering, or sword), or any other
item intended for use as a weapon, except to the extent and in the manner authorized by law. Legal firearms
may be carried if they are unloaded and carried in an enclosed container that completely conceals the item
from view and identification as a weapon. This paragraph does not apply to law enforcement personnel or to
persons to whom a concealed-carry license for such weapon has been duly issued and is in force.
26. Writing, marking, scribbling, defacing, or causing destruction on or to any RTD vehicle or property in any
manner.
27. Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility when seating is limited,. This section
is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV.
28. Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while so significantly and severely impaired by the
consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs that the customer is unable to safely use RTD’s transportation
services. Lying on the floor, bench, platform, stairway, landing, ground or conveyance.
29. Camping without a permit.
30. Storing personal property (except for designated areas such as bike lockers/racks when using transit) without
a permit.
31. Occupying or traversing landscaped areas (other than lawns intended for public use).
32. Blocking or impeding the safe and convenient boarding, exiting, or use of an aisle, elevator, escalator, pathway,
door, or stairway. Interfering with the operations or facilities maintenance in a way that poses a danger or
unreasonably impedes a customer’s movement (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
33. Failing to clear a designated wheelchair/mobility device area upon request.
34. Occupying or remaining on RTD property where the totality of the circumstances indicates that an individual is
not using RTD services, contracting lawful business, engaging in protected speech, or otherwise exercising a
fundamental right.
35. Unplugging a data or electrical plug already being used in an RTD vehicle or facility.

Wheeled devices
36. Riding a skateboard, inline or roller skates, bicycle, scooter, Segway, hoverboard, or other wheeled personal
transportation device (unless used as a mobility aid for an individual with a disability) in or on any RTD vehicle,
facility, or property. Strollers, non-ridden and non-straddled bicycles, and wheeled luggage are permitted.
37. Placing a bicycle on any RTD vehicle in other than designated locations or without staying next to the bicycle.
38. Using any wheeled device in an unsafe manner that could cause injury to others.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Clean (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 4

2.17.C.b

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 5

39. Bathing or washing clothes in RTD restrooms.
40. Failing to use designated sharps disposal containers to dispose of sharps waste.
41. Failure to wear footwear, shirts/tops, and pants/shorts/skirts on or in any RTD vehicle or facility (subject to
ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
42. Putting shoes/feet up on any seat in an RTD facility or vehicle.
43. Spitting or intentionally soiling any seat or other area (other than designated trash receptacles) with liquids,
soils, greases, oils, foods, litter, urine, feces, bodily fluids, or any other substances.
44. Intentionally causing a repulsive odor so extreme and unavoidable that it causes a nuisance, unreasonably
interferes with the use, operation, or enjoyment of an RTD vehicle or facility, or creates a direct threat or
unsafe condition. (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
45. Engaging in public nudity or exposing genitals.

Other Prohibited or Illegal Activity
46. Any illegal activity under any applicable federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or regulation, including but not
limited to: assault; menacing; theft; possession of illegal drugs; counterfeiting; littering; vandalism; hindering
public transportation (CRS 18-9-114); and endangering public transportation (CRS 18-9-115).
47. Failure to comply with a reasonable request from an RTD employee or representative related to RTD operational
policies.

The ADA and Reasonable Modification:
Under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), transportation entities are required to make reasonable
modifications to their policies, practices, and procedures to avoid discrimination and ensure that their programs
are accessible to individuals with disabilities. In accordance with this directive, RTD will make every effort, to the
maximum extent feasible, to ensure that a person with a disability has access to, and benefits from, its services.
RTD will make reasonable modifications to its policies, programs, and procedures applicable to its transportation
services when necessary to avoid discrimination and ensure accessibility for people with disabilities.
There may be certain situations when RTD’s policies and procedures do not achieve ADA objectives/accessibility.
A modification to these policies and procedures may be needed to ensure that a passenger with a disability has
access to our services.
Examples of reasonable modification can be found on RTD’s website under Accessibility. When making a
reasonable modification for an individual with a disability, the modification is not intended to:
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Clean (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Sanitation

2.17.C.b

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 6

• create undue financial and administrative burdens;
• constitute a fundamental alteration to a service;
• be more than necessary to provide equal access to an RTD service.
Any questions or concerns on reasonable modification should be directed to RTD’s Division of Civil Rights, ADA
Managers Office: 303-299-2221.

Enforcement:
RTD will comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act in
the administration of this Code of Conduct.
If violations of this Code of Conduct appear or are claimed to be caused by a disability, RTD
personnel are to contact Dispatch or Security for advice and assistance.
Enforcement will be conducted in a fair and reasonable manner. A person who engages in any of the above
prohibited conduct (Section III) may be warned and/or ordered to immediately exit the RTD vehicle, facility,
or property by a law enforcement officer, an RTD Transit Security Officer, an RTD Bus/Light Rail/Commuter
Rail Line Supervisor, or other authorized RTD personnel. Such personnel are authorized to issue an order
to the person to exit RTD property for up to the remainder of the service day.
Situations where a person refuses to leave an RTD vehicle, facility, or property after being ordered to do
so may be considered trespassing and may be referred to law enforcement personnel.
A person who engages in any of the above prohibited conduct may also, or instead, be issued a suspension
by RTD, suspending the person from all RTD vehicles, properties, and services for a determined amount of
time pursuant to RTD’s Service Suspension policy and procedures.
A person ordered to leave or suspended from RTD property will not be entitled to any refund of unused
fare media that may expire during the time of the person’s exclusion.
Suspension or orders to exit RTD property may be appealed pursuant to RTD’s Service Suspension policy
and procedures.
In addition to any other enforcement under this Code, riding an RTD vehicle without evidence that the
proper fare has been paid may be treated in accordance with Colorado Traffic Code, C.R.S. § 42-4- 1416.
In addition to any other enforcement under this Code, illegal activity may result in a citation under any
applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation, or ordinance, including C.R.S. § 18-9-114 - Hindering
Transportation (Class 2 Misdemeanor), and C.R.S. § 18-9-115 - Endangering Public Transportation and
Utility Transmission (Class 3 Felony).
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Clean (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

• cause a direct threat to the health and safety of others;

2.17.C.b

This Code of Conduct does not seek to limit, replace, or conflict with any federal, state, or local
law, regulation, or ordinance and does not limit or prevent any law enforcement agency or
entity from taking any lawful action against any person in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or
property.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Clean (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 7

2.17.C.c

Customer Code of Conduct
The Regional Transportation District makes lives better through connections, whether that is connecting a customer
with their final destination or the connections that happen with others on the system. To support all types of
connections, RTD asks its customers to follow a set of behavioral guidelines called Respect the Ride.
Respect the Ride focuses on providing a safe, convenient, and enjoyable experience for all customers,
while also discouraging disruptive or antisocial behaviors.
Being respectful of other customers and considerate to RTD’s employees does not take more than common courtesy.

Purpose:
RTD is committed to offering safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and cost-effective transportation throughout
the District to all constituents.
RTD strives to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and has equal access to transportation. In order to provide for
the safety, convenience, and comfort of all persons, RTD has established this Code of Conduct (Code) setting forth
rules prohibiting certain conduct that may adversely affect use, operation, or occupancy of RTD vehicles (including
RTD buses, Access-a-Ride vehicles, FlexRide vehicles, light rail vehicles, and commuter rail vehicles), facilities
(including bus and rail stations, parking facilities, bus stops, bus shelters, plazas and fountains, and administrative,
operational, and maintenance facilities), or property.
Prior to enforcement, RTD will make every attempt to first educate a person on conduct prohibited by
this Code. However, any person who engages in prohibited conduct may be subject to enforcement ranging from a
verbal or written warning, immediate suspension, or a criminal citation (see Section 5: “Enforcement”).
Conduct prohibited by this Code is subject to reasonable modification under the Americans with Disabilities Act (see
Section 4: “The ADA and Reasonable Modification”)

Authority:
This Code of Conduct was initially approved on December 20, 2016, by RTD’s Board of Directors and thereafter
amended on July 21, 2020, and June 27, 2023.

Prohibited Conduct:
A person, including any combination of persons of any nature whatsoever (including but not limited to companies,
clubs, associations, corporations, partnerships, and public entities) is prohibited from committing, attempting to
commit, or assisting any other person or combination of persons to commit, the following acts in or on any RTD
vehicle, facility, or property.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Redline (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

We make lives better
through connections.

2.17.C.c

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 2

1. Being within any RTD fare-paid area without prior payment of the proper fare.
2. Failing to possess or purchase valid fare when accessing RTD’s transit services. Riding an RTD vehicle without
proper fare or complying with RTD fare payment management systems (including but not limited to failure to
obtain and keep evidence of payment such as transfers and tickets; failure to validate a mobile ticket; and
failure to tap smart card media in accordance with RTD procedures).
3. Failing to obey any request from RTD to stand behind warning strips (including yellow tactile strips) or within
other safe locations on RTD vehicles or property.
4. Failing to exit an RTD vehicle once fare media has expired or upon reaching its final destination.
5. Unauthorized presence in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property after hours of operation.
6. Unauthorized presence on any RTD property that is not open to the public.
7. Crossing RTD rail tracks at any location other than at a traffic- or pedestrian-controlled intersection or at a
designated pedestrian crossing.
8. Violating the terms of or failing to have possession of an RTD Facilities Vendor License or Use Permit when
required. Commercial activity and certain other activities that, for example, involve use of equipment or may
attract large crowds require such a license or permit.

Smoking / Eating / Drinking / Littering
9. Smoking or vaping any substance including but not limited to tobacco (as defined in the Colorado Clean Indoor
Air Act), or use of chewing tobacco, on any RTD vehicle or within any prohibited area. “Prohibited area” for
purposes of this rule includes:
1. Any RTD facility or property where smoking is prohibited by state or local law.
2. Any indoor RTD facility.
3. Any outdoor or enclosed RTD facility or property where “no smoking” signs are posted.
4. The area within a radius of 15 feet of the main entry or doorway to an indoor RTD facility.
10. Consuming any alcoholic beverage or marijuana or possessing an open container of any alcoholic beverage or
marijuana in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property.
11. Bringing open food or beverage containers onto RTD vehicles. Food must be kept in a sealed or resealable
containers, and beverages must be sealed or in a spill-proof container. Eating on any RTD vehicle is only
allowable to the extent that it is medically necessary.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Redline (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Fares / Locations

2.17.C.c

12. Distributing or posting handbills on RTD vehicles or property, or on vehicles parked on RTD property, except
as otherwise authorized by RTD’s Facilities Use Policy.
13. Littering (including spilled food or liquids).

Disturbances
14. Engaging in disruptive behavior that materially interferes with other customers utilizing or accessing RTD
services or materially interferes with RTD personnel performing official duties
15. Engaging in harassment, sexual harassment, or bullying. This includes offensive behavior, unwelcome conduct
of a sexual nature, or abusive, repeated conduct directed toward an individual because of their sex, race, color,
national origin, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, transgender status, pregnancy, ancestry, age,
military status, disability, genetic information or any other status protected by law.
16. Engaging in language that is violent, profane, or calculated to provoke a breach of the peace. This includes but
is not limited to fighting words or threatening language that causes customers, RTD employees, or RTD
contractors to fear for their safety.
17. Operating any device used to listen to music or other sound (other than a mobile phone when being used for
communications) without earphones or at such a loudness level that the sound still causes a disturbance.
18. Use of a bull horn or similar device to willfully disrupt the provision of transit services or public safety.
19. Soliciting or otherwise engaging in unwanted conversation with any other person while such person is a captive
audience (i.e., while standing in line for or riding in a vehicle).
20. Engaging in activities not authorized by RTD’s Facilities Use Policy.

Occupancy
21. Taking any animal into an RTD indoor facility, onto a vehicle or within a fare paid area unless: (1) the animal
is intended and trained to assist a person with a disability; (2) the animal is in training to assist a person with
a disability; or (3) the animal is in an appropriate animal carrier (including locked, standard commercial
containers in the underfloor luggage bays of regional bus coaches). All animals must have proof of current
vaccinations required by the local jurisdictions in which the animals are traveling.
22. Obstructing customers with disabilities from accessing features necessary to use transit services such as ramps,
lifts, assigned seating areas, and high blocks.
23. Possessing or transporting large items that restrict the reasonable and safe movement of customers on or
around transit vehicles and facilities.
24. Possessing or transporting any flammable liquid, combustible material, or other dangerous or hazardous item
or substance such as gasoline, kerosene, or propane, including in a canister or machinery.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Redline (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 3

2.17.C.c

25. Carrying any weapon, dangerous instrument (including but not limited to switchblade knife, gravity knife, box
cutter, straight razor, razor blade not wrapped or enclosed in a protective covering, or sword), or any other
item intended for use as a weapon, except to the extent and in the manner authorized by law. Legal firearms
may be carried if they are unloaded and carried in an enclosed container that completely conceals the item
from view and identification as a weapon. This paragraph does not apply to law enforcement personnel or to
persons to whom a concealed-carry license for such weapon has been duly issued and is in force.
26. Writing, marking, scribbling, defacing, or causing destruction on or to any RTD vehicle or property in any
manner.
27. Intentionally occupying more than one seat of an RTD vehicle or facility when seating is limited, and customer
demand is high. This section is subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section IV.
28. Entering or remaining in an RTD vehicle or facility while so significantly and severely impaired by the
consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs, that the customer is unable thus impacting the ability to safety
safely function in a transit system environmentuse RTD’s transportation services. Lying on the floor, bench,
platform, stairway, landing, ground or conveyance.
29. Camping without a permit.
30. Storing personal property (except for designated areas such as bike lockers/racks when using transit) without
a permit.
31. Occupying or traversing landscaped areas (other than lawns intended for public use).
32. Blocking or impeding the safe and convenient boarding, exiting, or use of an aisle, elevator, escalator, pathway,
door, or stairway. Interfering with the operations or facilities maintenance in a way that poses a danger or
unreasonably impedes a customer’s movement (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
33. Failing to clear a designated wheelchair/mobility device area upon request.
34. Occupying or remaining on RTD property where the totality of the circumstances indicates that an individual is
not using RTD services, contracting lawful business, engaging in protected speech, or otherwise exercising a
fundamental right.
35. Unplugging a data or electrical plug already being used in an RTD vehicle or facility.

Wheeled devices
36. Riding a skateboard, inline or roller skates, bicycle, scooter, Segway, hoverboard, or other wheeled personal
transportation device (unless used as a mobility aid for an individual with a disability) in or on any RTD vehicle,
facility, or property. Strollers, non-ridden and non-straddled bicycles, and wheeled luggage are permitted.
37. Placing a bicycle on any RTD vehicle in other than designated locations or without staying next to the bicycle.
38. Using any wheeled device in an unsafe manner that could cause injury to others.
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Redline (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 4

2.17.C.c

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 5

39. Bathing or washing clothes in RTD restrooms.
40. Leaving needles in RTD restrooms except in designated Sharps Disposal Containers. Failing to use designated
sharps disposal containers to dispose of sharps waste.
41. Failure to wear footwear, shirts/tops, and pants/shorts/skirts on or in any RTD vehicle or facility (subject to
ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
42. Putting shoes/feet up on any seat in an RTD facility or vehicle.
43. Spitting or intentionally soiling any seat or other area (other than designated trash receptacles) with liquids,
soils, greases, oils, foods, litter, urine, feces, bodily fluids, or any other substances.
44. Intentionally causing a repulsive odor so extreme and unavoidable that it causes a nuisance, unreasonably
interferes with the use, operation, or enjoyment of an RTD vehicle or facility, or creates a direct threat or
unsafe condition. (subject to ADA reasonable modification; see Code Section 4).
45. Engaging in public nudity or exposing genitals.

Other Prohibited or Illegal Activity
46. Any illegal activity under any applicable federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or regulation, including but not
limited to: assault; menacing; theft; possession of illegal drugs; counterfeiting; littering; vandalism; hindering
public transportation (CRS 18-9-114); and endangering public transportation (CRS 18-9-115).
47. Failure to comply with a reasonable request from an RTD employee or representative related to RTD operational
policies.

The ADA and Reasonable Modification:
Under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), transportation entities are required to make reasonable
modifications to their policies, practices, and procedures to avoid discrimination and ensure that their programs
are accessible to individuals with disabilities. In accordance with this directive, RTD will make every effort, to the
maximum extent feasible, to ensure that a person with a disability has access to, and benefits from, its services.
RTD will make reasonable modifications to its policies, programs, and procedures applicable to its transportation
services when necessary to avoid discrimination and ensure accessibility for people with disabilities.
There may be certain situations when RTD’s policies and procedures do not achieve ADA objectives/accessibility.
A modification to these policies and procedures may be needed to ensure that a passenger with a disability has
access to our services.
Examples of reasonable modification can be found on RTD’s website under Accessibility. When making a
reasonable modification for an individual with a disability, the modification is not intended to:
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Redline (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Sanitation

2.17.C.c

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 6

• create undue financial and administrative burdens;
• constitute a fundamental alteration to a service;
• be more than necessary to provide equal access to an RTD service.
Any questions or concerns on reasonable modification should be directed to RTD’s Division of Civil Rights, ADA
Managers Office: 303-299-2221.

Enforcement:
RTD will comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act in
the administration of this Code of Conduct.
If violations of this Code of Conduct appear or are claimed to be caused by a disability, RTD
personnel are to contact Dispatch or Security for advice and assistance.
Enforcement will be conducted in a fair and reasonable manner. A person who engages in any of the above
prohibited conduct (Section III) may be warned and/or ordered to immediately exit the RTD vehicle, facility,
or property by a law enforcement officer, an RTD Transit Security Officer, an RTD Bus/Light Rail/Commuter
Rail Line Supervisor, or other authorized RTD personnel. Such personnel are authorized to issue an order
to the person to exit RTD property for up to the remainder of the service day.
Situations where a person refuses to leave an RTD vehicle, facility, or property after being ordered to do
so may be considered trespassing and may be referred to law enforcement personnel.
A person who engages in any of the above prohibited conduct may also, or instead, be issued a suspension
by RTD, suspending the person from all RTD vehicles, properties, and services for a determined amount of
time pursuant to RTD’s Service Suspension policy and procedures.
A person ordered to leave or suspended from RTD property will not be entitled to any refund of unused
fare media that may expire during the time of the person’s exclusion.
Suspension or orders to exit RTD property may be appealed pursuant to RTD’s Service Suspension policy
and procedures.
In addition to any other enforcement under this Code, riding an RTD vehicle without evidence that the
proper fare has been paid may be treated in accordance with Colorado Traffic Code, C.R.S. § 42-4- 1416.
In addition to any other enforcement under this Code, illegal activity may result in a citation under any
applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation, or ordinance, including C.R.S. § 18-9-114 - Hindering
Transportation (Class 2 Misdemeanor), and C.R.S. § 18-9-115 - Endangering Public Transportation and
Utility Transmission (Class 3 Felony).
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Redline (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

• cause a direct threat to the health and safety of others;

2.17.C.c

This Code of Conduct does not seek to limit, replace, or conflict with any federal, state, or local
law, regulation, or ordinance and does not limit or prevent any law enforcement agency or
entity from taking any lawful action against any person in or on any RTD vehicle, facility, or
property.

Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street, Denver CO 80202

rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: 2023-9-13 RTD Code of Conduct _GuzmanChanges_Redline (4819 : September 2023 Code of Conduct Revisions)

Subject: Customer Code of Conduct
Page 7

