October 8, 2019
Civil Rights Committee
SHONTEL LEWIS: And Silva. And so Zamy, if you'd jump in, we'd appreciate it.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you, Chair. All right. So good evening, everyone. This is Zamy Silva,
again, from the Civil Rights Office. And just providing a few-- I'm sorry?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can you back up from the microphone, its a little bit loud.
ZAMY SILVA: Too loud?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Maybe a little.
ZAMY SILVA: Maybe I should not use it, because I'm loud as it is.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, we need it.
ZAMY SILVA: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But just try to hear some of those -ZAMY SILVA: OK. Thank you. Before I get started, on page 10 and 11 of the Civil Rights
Update there were some minor technicalities. We made an error on Women's Transportation
Seminar, and we were not able to change it since it was already submitted in MinuteTraq. So you
should have printed copies as well as, it will be updated in the state system tomorrow. OK.
So the change that-- what we're going to be talking about on the first part is the update to the
DBE program plan. RTD is required to put together a DBE program plan that is approved by
FTA on how RTD administers its DBE program. And every so often we have to make changes to
the DBE program plan.
And the DBE program plan is a book. I have a copy with me. So it's a lot of work. So we've
spent weeks, working on updates, regulatory type of updates, as well as go methodology that we
just submitted to the FTA. We have provisions, such as prompt payment that we had to make
changes to. So that was submitted to the FTA yesterday. Let's see.
A couple of months ago I gave a presentation about the DBE methodology that is required,
again, by the FTA every three years. That was submitted by August 1, and we have received
concurrence from the FTA as of August 15. And that will start as of October 1 of this year,
which is the 2020 federal fiscal year. OK.

Just some updates on the small business office-- currently their office is monitoring 51 contracts,
which is on the operations and maintenance side, which is on the base systems. And 26 of those
have SBE, RTD SBE goals. And 25 is the DBE goals. And out of those 51, 14 are being primed
by DBEs or SBEs. And currently over $66 million on the base systems is being spent on small
businesses.
In terms of contracts that we have with other authorities or jurisdiction through an
intergovernmental agreement, all of those are federally funded. We are currently monitoring 12,
and seven construction, five planning or consulting services. Over $12 million is being spent on
DBEs on those projects.
And then on the fast tracks corridor, we have $1.1 billion being spent on small businesses. I've
given an update on this earlier in the year. Over 616 individual contracts and subcontracts, 2,988.
OK. Let me see.
ADA office-- did we change one? Yes. OK. August 27, RTD hosted a public right away
accessibility guideline training. So there is no law for curbside or for how the measurement for
sidewalks-- how big it should be, how small. What we have is the public right away accessibility
guideline, which most places use.
And so we wanted the folks to come out and give a presentation to RTD, Harry Stopplecamp's
group, the engineering group, as well as, there were a few folks from the City and County of
Denver that came out and attended this training as well, in light of the 16th Street Mall. So lots
of participation and the feedback was really good.
In terms of the ADA Office update again, we are currently working with marketing to do a
service animal campaign. That's always an area of contentions. And we are encountering lots of
concerns out there of folks bringing animals that are not service animals. And so we're really
trying to educate the public on what we require on our services. So we're currently working with
marketing to get that out there, and public information as well. OK.
And then we have an advisory committee for people with disabilities. And one of the things-- in
civil rights, a lot of what we do is focus on issues and concerns and complaints. And once in a
while we get an opportunity to really recognize folks that are doing good work. And so these are
commendations that we received from the community, pertaining to what they are doing out
there to help our customers that have disability.
And so we recognize them. And we do that every quarter here in TND. And so I just wanted to
give you an update on that. And this is a picture of, you know, what we took that day. And these
folks are-- you know, they come with their family. I mean, some of these stories are very
compelling. They go above and beyond to help the community.
And these are just some events that we've attended this year, not all. These are some, as some are
required by USDOT under the DBE program. And some is just really to engage with the
community on an ongoing basis. And then the next slide is some of the upcoming events that we
have left for the year.

With that, that concludes my presentation, and I will take any questions at this time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you Zamy for that presentation. I always appreciate the level of
detail you provide us. So, thanks. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lewis. Zamy, thank you very much for your
presentation. I really appreciate it. A couple of things-- last night on my town hall conversation, I
had a constituent ring Colin and talk about the fact that she lives in Aurora. She takes Paratransit,
and can't get Paratransit to get her to Colorado Mills Mall. Can you explain that?
ZAMY SILVA: At this time I can take that to the Paratransit. We can investigate the matter . Did
she-- do you know if she filed a complaint with RTD that we can look into? Do we have a name
that maybe we can look into?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I'm sure Pauletta can access her information, because she was on
the call and we have the phone number. And she was pretty upset about it. You know, the
Paratransit Services, I understand are a big problem. I mean, it's a problem that's-- you know, as
far as I've been here in my long tenure at this agency has never been very good, frankly. And not
only her, but I can also say that other people have been so late to their doctor's appointments that
they get canceled. And some of these doctor's appointments are not just, sort of, your regular
checkup, right. They are very important to stay alive, I think. And so they're serious. And when
people can take alternative transportation like Uber or taxis and use the voucher, they more than
willingly do that. So, you know, we've got to get down to what the problem is with Paratransit
and improve the services to the people.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you, Director Folska. Mr.-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm not-- I'm not finished.
SHONTEL LEWIS: One second. I'm not interrupting you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh.
SHONTEL LEWIS: If you could take that back to your team?
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, thank you. The 16th Street Mall has also been a problem since I've
been on this Board. And I'm sure it's been a problem well before I've gotten on this Board. As a
matter of fact, it has been. And in part, part of why I ran to be on this Board was to try to do
something about the 16th Street Mall.
And at first it was just taking out the corners and leaving those virtual corners. That's what I call
them. But this ongoing problem-- now many Board members may or may not know that this

evening, at the same time, concurrent with this meeting at the Webb building is the City and
County of Denver outreach to the community at large, and in particular folks with disabilities,
and most important, or perhaps most particular, folks who are visually impaired and blind.
And the Colorado Center for the Blind is a big advocate for doing certain things to the mall that
don't make it inaccessible. What I think it's important for you, your department, and your ADA
manager to understand is that when blind people are walking on a sidewalk, and you get a
sidewalk when you have a curb and a corner, it's not shared-- there's a sense of confidence that
I'm in the right place and I'm safe.
Until you go walking down that 16th Street Mall in the right of way, blindfolded, no one has any
business saying we don't need the corner. And I've seen things in writing from the City and
County of Denver that have been sent to me that say, oh, well, when the blind people veer off
into the right of way, the vendors will put them back on track. And then the City and County
says, well, we're going to train all the blind people to use this new way of getting around. That's
impossible.
What about the blind people that aren't born yet? What about the blind people who are visiting
here? And this isn't funny. This is a very serious thing. And the final thing that just kills me the
most is, we sat here and argued and argued and argued for years, like 15 years.
This is not a new argument. What is the material we're going to use? And it was determined that
it had to be this granite, because it was what I.M. Pei used. And that's going to cost the City and
County $70 million for a sidewalk for one mile. And you know what they say, oh, we're going to
put a tactile strip down the middle of this so blind people can follow that. And no one really
knows what to do. And they're not listening to the blind people.
And here's the part that is so troubling, is that we as electives come and go, and the bureaucrats
stay. So if you guys wait us out long enough, you can do whatever you want. And when we talk
about trust in the community and public engagement, when you don't really listen to what's
important to the user, the user group, and the most vulnerable people in our community, and you
just keep going forward and do it anyway, and then you get sued by somebody like the Colorado
Cross Disability Coalition, on top of all that money that you did, and then ruining that great look
of this granite by putting a strip down, you know, that's reprehensible.
So I hope you can get something done here. And I'm really serious about this. And I know RTD
only has a 10% stake in this. Denver's going to do what Denver's going to do. But we need to
stand up for what's right. And maybe y'all need to take a blindfolded walk. Thank you.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you. Just to-- just a couple of things. Thank you Director Folska. Ed
Newberg, our ADA Manager has been attending all of the meetings on the 16th Street Mall on a
weekly basis. And our intent-- again, this is a Denver project. It is not RTD's project. We are,
from the standpoint of compliance and requirements with the federal government, we are
attending these meetings and collaborate to have as much public outreach as possible to seek
input. So he's over there today at that meeting as well.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. And thank you for that. But that public outreach needs to be
meaningful. Right? Like you don't just sit there and listen and then go off and do something
completely different. Right. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Maybe we can continue this conversation offline?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Actually, I'm kind of on this same topic. I have here in front of me the
notification about the 16th Street Mall project meeting, which interestingly enough, since we
have several Board members who are seriously involved in this stuff, was held at exactly the
same time as the Board meeting, so that none of us could attend.
And it says that this meeting is designed to allow the attendees to leave the meeting with a full
understanding of the design option and delineation measures, which, I think Director Folska and
I, and probably other members of this Board would like to have that. So maybe we could ask Ed
Newberg and the City and County of Denver if they would come in, give us the information that
we were unable to attend. That's my first comment.
ZAMY SILVA: Yes. And we'll be more happy to have Denver come out and do the presentation.
So we-- again, this was organized by the City and County of Denver. And we assisted with this
effort. We understand. And this is, from our standpoint, one of the many meetings. We've had
other meetings in the community as well. We've met one on one with lots of organizations. And
I'm looking to see more public outreach in the months to come as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to point out, also while we're still having this conversation, that
normally we have a number of disability advocates sitting in the front of this room here. And if
you'll look, none of them are here. Because you know why? They're all over there. So I'm just
pointing that out. And I'm sure that we will all, as elected public officials, get to hear from them
on what went on in the meeting.
The other thing I wanted to point out, now that we're not talking about that anymore, is in terms
of service animals. It might be-- is Pauletta still here? Pauletta's still here. It might be something
to put on our website that you could go there and register your service animal. I mean, not that
everybody's going to do it, but that might be a nice option to have.
And then when you came with your potbelly pig or your boa constrictor or whatever we've had
to the bus, you know, you might have found out in advance that we did not accept those, because
you went and tried to register them. It's just kind of a big picture thought of something to add to
our site. That's all. Thank you, Chair-- woman. Chairwoman.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Quick question-- small business office update,
packet page eight. It's the one that has the total fast tracks DBE commitment, SBE commitment,
and then a total of $1.14 billion. And I'm sure it's in here somewhere. I just couldn't find it. Over
what period of time is that?
ZAMY SILVA: So that's the entire time. For fast tracks we count all of the DBE and SBE
participation since the start of fast track.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Since '04 or '05, whenever. OK. OK, thanks.
ZAMY SILVA: You're welcome.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. The public right of way accessibility guidelines
training that occurred in August, I think is a good start. I attended the Jefferson County LLC
meeting last month, and there was a lot of discussion about RTD and accommodating the
disabled community, particularly the visually impaired.
And so I mentioned it to Zamy and Ed, and they are planning to go out and listen to those folks,
and understand what their concerns are, because they have some very specific concerns. And a
lot of it has to do with engineering.
So I think that this training that took place in August is a good start, and it's a way to let the
community out there know that you are listening to their concerns, and you're starting to address
them. So I thought this was a good step in the right direction. I mean, it's a start. And I thank you
for agreeing to go out and meet with them. And Dr. Williams can maybe help, but I think some
of the other LLC groups would appreciate the same level of attention. Thank you. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
You get in line to speak.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Going back to the 16th Street Mall again-- and I'm
not sure who to direct this question to, but it seems like there's an awful lot of very heavy
maintenance going on, very expensive, heavy maintenance going on, on the 16th Street Mall. Is
all that going to be torn up three months from now when they start to redo the mall? I mean, it
just seems like that's a terrible message to send to the public that you're wasting that much
money.
SHONTEL LEWIS: General Manager.

DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So the work that's going on now is just necessary
to keep the pavers and the transit way in place and operational for us. So I believe the schedule
for construction is quite a ways down the road. I don't have the exact schedule on the top of my
head. But I don't think the RFP's even going to go out until right around the first of the year or
just right after the first of the year. This will be the RFP for design growth in the work that
Denver will be doing to rebuild the whole mall. So construction is a considerable amount of time
down the road yet.
BOB BROOM: OK. But, you know, a lot of this construction is going on in the pedestrian area,
between where the mall shuttle's drive. And so it's not that they're driving on, you know, driving
on this area that they're replacing. Maybe it's a tripping hazard, I don't know. But it seems like a
terrible waste of money to me.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, if I may, I would assume that work is necessary just to keep those
sidewalks in a state of good repair so they're not at issue. Or there might be some other reasons
for the work if they're doing some other utilities or similar related work that's causing them to do
some subsurface work. But I'm sure they're not just doing work for the sake of doing it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks Director Broom. Thank you, General Manager. Director Folska.
Welcome back.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. OK. You know, the ADA was passed in 1991. We've had it
around for 28 years. And with all due respect to Vice Chair Peggy Catlin, you know, it's a little
late to get a good start on this now. So I'm not feeling it. You know? And I would hope, Zamy,
that moving forward your department could actually hire people with disabilities, so that you
could have a really meaningful impact on doing your ADA work, right, and not just going out
and listening. Because living it and having a lived experience, as I'm sure you know from
different perspectives of people, is a very different thing. Thank you.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Zamy, this is once again an amazing
report. These numbers are phenomenal. And I think that if we just stopped from one minute and
see the scope and the depth of the economic impact that our Civil Rights Division has had in the
community, it's really quite extraordinary. So I want to congratulate you and your team. And
when I read your outreach, it far surpasses anything. It's just inclusive, it's culturally relevant,
and it really shows equity. And I just want to say thank you. So that's the good stuff.
Now I want to talk about the 16th Street Mall.
[LAUGHING]
As a transit rider, I have to say that since they are having this discussion now, it would be
important for us to maybe put in some information about issues of concern. One is the pavers are

not level. And, in fact, one of our staff people just fractured her knee on the 16th Street Mall,
because one of the pavers was not even. But that's dry. When they put that stuff on it, when it's
wet or snowy, it is so slippery that it's scary to walk on there. I can't even imagine what it's like
for someone who has a disability, because it is really terrifying to walk on the 16th Street Mall.
And you're trying to catch the shuttle.
This is the number one location for tourism in the state of Colorado, if I remember correctly.
And we have, what, 40,000 people a day catching our shuttles. It really is our chance right now
to ask that there be things put in place so that folks feel safe, comfortable, and they're not going
to just biff it and really get hurt. It really is pretty scary. So I just wanted to bring that to your
attention as you're going forward, and in talking with the City. I think this is our time to kind of
do that. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Go ahead.
DAVE GENOVA: If I might just reply to that. We are providing quite a bit of requirements to
Denver that come right out of RTD's design requirements for transit facilities and the transit way.
And so we're working very closely, and trying to get the things that are really important to RTD
addressed.
We've just recently worked through our main IJA points that are in line with the points that the
Board approved some time ago. So while it is a sitting County of Denver project, we do have a
major seat at the table and we're working very closely with them to the best we possibly can to
make sure that the transit requirements and elements are attended to well, including all of the
ADA requirements.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, General Manager. I'm not seeing any more speak-- one more
speaker in the group, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. Zamy, I just wanted to thank you for your presentation, and
for all the work that you guys do. And I want to second what Director Rivera-Malpiede said, that
the numbers are amazing, in terms of the amount of impact, the amount of money spent on this.
So thank you
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you. I just wanted to add one more last thing. I wanted to say that I came
into civil rights in 2015. And I hired an ADA manager in 2015. By law we were required to have
an ADA coordinator. And there are numerous policies and procedures that we have worked on
since then, and have made several trips and outreach to the community. And I have taken other
staff members within the agency that works with the disability community as well.
Because as you know, there are some disabilities that you can see and some that you can't. For
instance, I have a disability but you cannot see it. And so it is important to note that we have
been working on several initiatives and efforts within the Civil Rights Division to have RTD in
compliance. And I hear you, that this is a work in progress. There is still a lot of work that needs
to be done, and I am very much committed to that.

And we can put together a list of all of the training, including our operators that we have assisted
with some of those trainings as well, and the supervisors and the dispatchers and the tips. So
there's a lot that goes on that you may not see in this presentation. But if that is something that
would be of value, I would be more than happy to put that together. And as we move forward, I
encourage you-- if you see something that maybe we can take a look at, I'll be more than happy
to see how we can assist. Because this is something that continues.
As far as any complaints that come in during the town hall meetings, we have spoken to
communications. We have a complaint process, specifically to ADA, that we worked on an
entire year, which has been approved by the FTA. And if we have all of the information
necessary to address that complaint, we will do so, and respond directly to the complainant.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Zamy. I really appreciate your time in this report. Keep
up with the good work. Well, any other matters? I'm tired. Well, the next meeting will be
sometime in 2020. I hope you all can attend, and hoping to make it into 2020.
[LAUGHING]
We are adjourned. That's what it says.

