1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, September 2, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:38 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

6:40 PM
6:37 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:38 PM
6:39 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

6:36 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

6:36 PM
6:37 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:37 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District C

Present
Present

6:41 PM
6:40 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:36 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:40 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:36 PM
6:37 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Jeff Cluphf, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Jim Maguire, Barbara McManus, Tara Miller, Vivian Morales,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Karen Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, C. Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

Jenifer Bradenberry, Michael Dino, Aaron Epsten, Tina Francone, Joni
Goheen, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Daryl
Kirby, Brian Middleton, Laura Rinker, Roger Sherman, Joshua Solis,
Joe Racogley, Joe Triplett, Ted Wenzlick

B. Recommended Actions

• Contract Amendment; 2nd year 2014 option 2013-2015 Street
Improvements & Shelter Installations Contract # 33DM005
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the second
year of a three-year option contract for the annual Street Improvements &
Shelter Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc. for $371,711.30.
Funding for this contract amendment is provided by the annual 2014 – 2015
Engineering Expense Budgets.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the September 16,
2014 Board meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Sr. Manager for Engineering introduced C.
Scott Woodruff, Project Manager for Street Improvements.
Henry Stopplecamp said that the motion requests a secondyear option for the three-year option contract started in
September, 2013. He noted that the cost is built into the
budget.
Committee Chair James asked for the specific period for the
second-year option. Henry Stopplecamp said it was from
September, 2014 to September, 2015.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Updates

• Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) Update
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, presented the
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) Update included in the Planning &
Development Committee Meeting packet for September 2, 2014. The
presentation included the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG)
TIP background, process, and criteria. The RTD projects to be submitted to
the TIP are the 15L Transit Station Improvements, the Regional Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT) Feasibility Study, the 16th Street Mall Reconstruction, the SH
119 BRT Environmental Clearance Study, the Free MetroRide Service
Expansion, and the Speer/Leetsdale Corridor 83L/79L Study.
Director Anderson said that she was pleased with the projects chosen for
the TIP application. She recalled her days on the DRCOG Board. During
that time, an entity could submit up to sixteen (16) projects. Limiting the
amount to six (6) projects has reduced the competition. She asked staff if
they have strategized on how to move projects through the DRCOG process.
She mentioned the possibility of joint applications with municipalities or
counties. Bill Van Meter said that staff has strategized and at times solicits
support from other jurisdictions. This year DRCOG changed their
measurements of projects. He said that with fewer projects submitted, RTD
is not sure how the agency’s projects would score against other projects.
This augments the need to advance the best projects.
Director Bagley asked how many blocks compose the 16th Street Mall. He
also asked for how many blocks are currently under reconstruction, how
many are funded for reconstructions, and how many are left to reconstruct.
Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs, answered that
the project is still in the design phase with a start date of first quarter,
2015. He said that there is $10 million to fund the reconstruction of the
16th Street Mall. This amount would fund two (2) to two and a half blocks.
He told the Directors he would double check the total amount of blocks on
the 16 Street Mall. Director Bagley said this would be helpful information
for the Directors to know.

Director Bagley asked if the FreeMetro Ride request would expand the
service during the midday. Bill Van Meter said that the TIP request would
increase the frequency and hours of operation during the a.m. and p.m. peak
hours. Director Bagley asked for the dollar amount of expanding the
FreeMetro Ride service to the Golden Triangle. Bill Van Meter answered that
he can provide the amount from the study efforts that led to the current
operations.
Director Lubow asked how frequent TIP submissions are. Bill Van Meter
replied that the process happens every 3 years.
Director Lubow asked if the SH119 BRT Environmental Clearance Study
would also be an Environmental Impact Study (EIS). Bill Van Meter said the
anticipation is for an Environmental Assessment Process.
Director Daly asked if there is any priority among the 6 projects submitted.
Bill Van Meter replied that there is no implied priority on the projects. Each
project corresponds to different scoring criteria. It is up to DRCOG’s scoring
process to determine which projects, if any, rate high enough to warrant
funding.
Director Folska told staff that she thought the project list was spot on. She
expanded on Director Bagley’s point on the FreeMetro Ride. Director Folska
asked how expanding the service timeframe as well as the route to the
Golden Triangle would build bridges with the community. Bill Van Meter
answered that RTD held public meetings when the route for the FreeMetro
Ride was originally created. Expansion of the route would merit a similar
process with stakeholders. The expansion, he said, would pragmatically
mean costs in operations, purchase of vehicles, and building stops. Bill Van
Meter noted that for this type of capital expenditure RTD would want to look
at partners to assist in funding. Director Folska asked how long DRCOG
would support the project if funded. Bill Van Meter replied that the support
would be for a 3 year period. After that, the funding would be RTD’s
responsibility.
Chair Sisk noted that 40% of the TIP funding is allocated to bicycle and
pedestrian projects. He said that RTD does not qualify for that allocation
unless the 16th Street Mall is considered a pedestrian project. Chair Sisk
said that he was interested in the “last mile”. He pointed out that RTD may
want to partner with cities and other entities in providing that service. Bill
Van Meter replied that the minimum request is $100,000. He also said that
DRCOG has set a limit on awards under $500,000. Bill Van Meter added
that most bicycle/last mile projects are in this smaller range. Staff
recognizes the need Chair Sisk pointed out and is working on a

bicycle/transit plan. This plan, however, does not fit the DRCOG TIP
qualifications. Chair Sisk thanked Bill Van Meter for the explanation.
Director Solano pointed out that the TIP submissions are a great idea,
particularly the Regional BRT Feasibility Study. This project affects the
Northeast quadrant which he represents.
Committee Chair James noted that RTD did a study of the Speer/Leetsdale
corridor. He said that any work to be done in this area would be in
collaboration with the City and County of Denver. He also said that the City
and County of Denver is about to release a study on the “last mile”.

D. Other Matters
Director Solano thanked Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of
Communications, for helping coordinate the Adams County Citizens Tour of Denver
Union Station. Scott Reed said that Julia Marvin and Lisa Trujillo worked in the
coordination of the event.
Chair Sisk asked Scott Reed to expand on an email sent to the Directors regarding a
Bus Operator with First Transit. Scott Reed said that on Monday, September 1,
2014, a Frist Transit Bus Operator was arrested for operating a bus under the
influence of alcohol. The operator had a previous DUI offense. The offense was
over fifteen (15) years ago, beyond the scope of RTD’s background checks. Scott
Reed said that he was pleased with First Transit’s reaction and communication with
the media.
Committee Chair James asked Bill Sirois, Senior Manager for Transit Oriented
Development, to explain the plans for studying and responding to the unsolicited
proposal for the purchase of the Bus Barn Site. Bill Sirois said General Manager Phil
Washington received an unsolicited proposal from D4, the developer working on the
Alameda Station. Staff is studying the proposal and will bring a recommendation to
the Board during the October committee meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 7, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:19 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

