Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 7, 2010
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

September 14, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on September 7, 2010 at
6:05 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair McMullen, Vice-Chair O’Boyle, Directors Bagley,
Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Christopher, Daly, James, Malpiede, Martinez,
Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Director Kemp

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Anthony Menendez, Jerry
Nery, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Julie Skeen, Bill Sirois,
Jim Starling, John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Robin Kneich (FRESC), Bob Wilson, Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bill
Mitchell (MEG), Lorraine Anderson, Melinda Pollack – Enterprise, Bill
Mosher – TCC/DUSPA.
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 6:05 p.m.

Updates
 CAC Update
The CAC update was provided in a memo dated September 2, 2010 and was
included in the board packet. The CAC quarterly meeting is being held at The
Children’s Hospital in Aurora on September 15, 2010 from 6:00 pm to 8:00 pm.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 7, 2010
Page 2

 APE Schedule
General Manager, Phil Washington and Bill VanMeter tag teamed on this
presentation. This presentation has to do with the roadmap 2010 evaluation and
financial plan approval. RTD is committed to building out the entire FasTracks
Program, this APE will provide direction on how that can be done be done as quickly
as possible. Staff has been tasked to provide various scenarios with regard to sales
tax.
On October 12, 2010 staff will present to the Board what is left on the table from
the Eagle P3 program and the best technical approach to expend the funds. They will
also present an outreach plan.
Phil ended with the famous “checkmark” and checked the groundbreaking box.
Director Busck inquired about the farebox collections on light rail compared to buses.
The farebox collection on busses is 19-21%. The projections are in the 30-40%
range of Operating and Maintenance costs for future FasTracks Corridors.
 DUS
Bill Mosher indicated that they are 90% done with the design work associated with
the architectural elements and 30% complete with the design work on the public
realm. It is their hope, that by the end of the year, 60% design will be complete and
accepted.
The same presentation will be provided to the public on September 15, 2010 at
5:30 and the process will continue as we go forward with the various City approvals
over the next three months.
The presentation generated questions regarding parking. Rick Clarke mentioned that
the EIS commitment is to provide 150 spaces; they don’t all have to be there on
opening day. It is paid parking, similar to how it is today.
Director Tayer asked what the budget impact is because of the adjusted parking. Bill
Mosher responded that there is no budget impact.
Director Pulliam commented that we don’t need parking in the evening; the whole
idea of the transit concept is to have parking during the day. The thinking is
reversed from what it should be.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 7, 2010
Page 3
Director Daly inquired about the water structure on 17th Street being deleted. Bill
Mosher confirmed that this has been deleted because it was built on top of the bus
box.
Director Daly also inquired about the three blocks from light rail to commuter rail; he
always understood it to be covered at surface level to protect against the elements.
Director Pulliam confirmed that Director Daly was correct.
Director Brohl requested that page numbers be placed on future presentations.
Director Brohl asked if seating could be placed around the ventilation towers to make
them functional. Bill Mosher responded that there is no seating around ventilation
towers to prevent people from climbing them.
Director Brohl thinks the canopy connector doesn’t flow and asked if there was a
way to make it blend. Bill Mosher responded that is was done this way on purpose
so it would not take away from the historical preservation of DUS.
Director Martinez is hopeful that future drawings will include signage. There should
be plenty of signage.
Chair McMullen thanked Bill for coming and providing the presentation.
Rick Clarke and Jerry Nery provided the construction update to the Board.
PowerPoint Presentation is included in the meeting minute’s book.

The

Director Malpiede asked if there could be some Plexiglas placed by the Millennium
Bridge to show what it will look like when it is complete. The floral crochet on the
fence is quite an attraction too.
Director Bagley thinks that it would be worthwhile for the entire Board to go on a
tour with Kiewit. Rick Clarke will set up the tour.
Director McMullen inquired about the 100 year flood. Jerry Nery indicated that the
100 year flood embankment was made when Elitch Gardens came in.
 West Corridor
Jim Starling, Project Manager, provided this update via PowerPoint presentation.
Rick Clarke discussed the project contingency on the West Corridor. The project will
remain within the budget.
Director Tayer suggested that it would be helpful if Phil include in his monthly report,
a tally of how many people we had employed through the FasTracks initiative.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, September 7, 2010
Page 4

II.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

III.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is
scheduled for October 12, 2010.

IV.

Adjourn – Committee Chair McMullen adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee at 7:40 p.m.

