2021-06-17
Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --17th.
Good afternoon, everybody. I'd like to call the June 17, 2021 Executive Committee to order. It is 11:31
AM. We are meeting remotely due to the pandemic. Ms. McManus, can you take roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, sorry. I've had a little computer difficulty and my class just ended. So I'm kind
of juggling a couple things.
BARBARA MCMANUS: All righty.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here. Hello, all.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Vince Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm here. And the Chair.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: She got a raise.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Well, the first thing on our agenda is to approve the agenda for the
July-- I cannot believe this-- the July Board, no, the June Board meeting. Do I have a movant?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK Thank you.
Any discussion on the agenda items for the June Board meeting? All right. Seeing none, I guess we're
right down to Other Matters. Any other matters to come before the Board? Is that correct? It feels so fast
to me. But are there any other matters to come before the Board?
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Madam Chair.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MELANIE SNYDER: We need to take a vote on the—
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MELANIE SNYDER: --agenda
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. All in favor of the agenda, please say aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Aye, aye, aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Aye. Any opposed? OK, it passes unanimously. Thank you, General
Counsel.
OK. Now we can go to Other Matters. Is there any other matter to come before this committee? Yes.
Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: It's just a question actually. And I'm wondering when and if we're going to be going back
to in-person meetings and, sub part one, whether when we do, we will continue to do public comment in a
hybrid fashion, either in person or remotely.
Thank you. I have nothing further.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. I think the last I heard, and it changes daily, is that we still
will go through September. Is that correct, General Counsel, to your recollection?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that is my understanding.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. And maybe Mr. McKay, if you have any update, or Ms. McManus,
because I know that you guys have been part of the meetings with the staff on that stuff, if you want to
jump in.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So there are some challenges with coming back to meet in person and have what
the meetings look like currently and what they used to look like all at the same time, meaning meeting in
public and also doing Zoom and also being socially distanced, if at that point we still need to be.
I know that a lot of folks are going back to public meetings but they're not allowing any in-person public
participation. Henry Stopplecamp and Michael Ford are working on looking at some different options for
locations. We're not really sure if we'll be able to accommodate what we need to do in RT&D. So we are
going to have some challenges in going back.
I don't know what that timeline looks like. We may have to do part of the Board in person, part through
Zoom. There's a couple of different hybrid models we're looking at. But right now we don't have a valid inhouse space that can accommodate all that we need to do.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I know that that's cumbersome, Secretary Buzek, but this is such a fluid
issue. And now there's this new variant that is, I guess, more aggressive, particularly to people who've not
been inoculated. And so they have to look at all of that stuff. I do know Mr. Meader meets weekly with the
CDC. But we are still mandated by the FTA and all of that to, because we're public transit, to still do
things in place that other people are not being required to do. We'll keep you guys in the loop. we know it.
VINCE BUZEK: I was just wondering what the current thinking was. So that answers my question.
Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. And then the public comment, we've got all of that. So I think
we'll just keep you guys in the loop.
Yeah, First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to follow up on that, for Barbara. Before we left the RT&D and our in-person
meetings, we were having trouble with the streaming. And aside from the safe distancing and COVID
issues, is that a big piece of the issue, we just can't get the internet to work the way we need it to down
there, or whatever the problem was?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it's how do we do a Zoom meeting if we're trying to be socially distanced
and everybody has to have a second device in which to be on Zoom as well and what that looks like
technology wise.
I also am just going to throw out there that I don't really know what the hiring pool looks like and I'm down
two staff members. So I don't know when they'll be in place. And so in-person meetings take a lot of set
up and they take more to run than what we're currently doing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And First Vice Chair Guissinger, I think you're absolutely correct, there
really was a problem with connection to being able to stream down in the basement of this building,
because it's an old building, and we just-- and I know Mr. McKay had been working on that diligently for a
year before. So there's that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Director Rosenthal has a question. And then I'm going to ask John to jump in
if there's anything that I've forgotten.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And you know, I'm trying not to be a naysayer here, but I kind of agree
with Director Buzek, in kind of a sense of as we look forward, how do we meet again? And that the fact is
that, as I understood it from a prior meeting, all the Board members have been inoculated, and—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's not true.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. So that was what I had heard from Board members. And if it's not true-- OK, so
then—
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. We did have one Board member state that they did not get
inoculated. So that's why I'm saying that it is not everybody.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I hear you on that. And yet that is also the person's choice, at this point. We
also have to say, at what point as a society, this is a bigger societal issue where people make choices as
to whether they want to or not and whether one person should guide the decision of 15. You know, this is- I'm just being perhaps a bit blunt on this, that we need to also make a decision for the basis of the 14.
And then also, and I get it, what Barbara is saying, that as we get new staff and things like that, we have
to keep that in mind, maybe they're not inoculated, and I get that too. But there's no necessity for Board
members to be socially distant. We don't have to be because we are, except for one member, all
inoculated.

So I just wanted-- what I'm kind of getting at here is that we should also base it on the fact of we are
pretty much all inoculated and we should be able to meet. I get that there is a technological issue of
meeting in that basement, perhaps, that we don't have a T-1 or what have you to be able to stream.
But I guess we just need to move forward at some point to meet. And I get it, that Mr. Ford and Ms.
McManus and Ms. Snyder and others are working on those issues diligently. But I hope that we will
continue to have a say in that matter to say, hey, let's move this along to be able to go back to some
semblance of normalcy. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Chair, I'd like to let everyone know that Director Tisdale has joined the
meeting as well, as part of the roll. And also, whether we're inoculated or not, as you will see, as you will
see, did see and will see again at the strategic planning session, the CDC guidelines for us businesses in
transportation is to continue to be socially distanced. Now that may change between now and September.
We're supposed to be getting an update in very early July. But right now, as an agency, we still are
required to be socially distanced.
John, do you have anything to add?
JOHN MCKAY: About the technology piece, there is, the bandwidth now has finally been routed toward
the building. So there was an issue with getting Century Link to actually get the pipeline to the building if
we were to use the existing system down in RT&D. So we, without getting too far into the weeds, there is
a box there that serves as our transmitter that sends the signal out to Amazon, it beams it back to us.
The problem was always just getting the signal from the building out to the internet at large. There are
other ways that you can route a stream using different technology. Using Zoom, if we could use the
room's existing, or the network that exists in RT&D, there is a way to do it.
And it is being contemplated that Zoom is going to be used, or some sort of streaming service would be
used going forward, and that the public would be able to participate remotely, even using a phone, if we
were to go back to the old methods of the technology that we had down in there even using a phone
wouldn't really work.
It wouldn't be as accessible to people. We could only have a certain number of people on the line at one
point in time. So using Zoom, or some other form of streaming technology, would be advantageous as
opposed to going back to the old way of doing things.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin, I see your hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: There. I think I got it unmuted.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just from a perception perspective, I attended in person the E-470 board meeting last
Thursday. And they did a combination, a hybrid of in-person and Zoom. There were a couple of Board
members that were not in the room. But they also had room for public comment, either via Zoom or in
person. And they had all been inoculated. My point being that that is also a transportation agency. It's not
a public transit agency, but there is customer contact by virtue of their walk-up customer service center
and all of that.
So I'd be curious to understand from Mr. Meader what the difference is. I know that we have to have
masks and social distancing on our platforms. We have to have masks on our rail and bus. I know that.
But I just want to see what the difference is in terms of public meetings. Because I just experienced the
alternative to that, with E-470. So I just would be curious to understand that, what Barbara said about as
a public transportation agency we're required to, by the CDC. Because it seems like there's some
inconsistencies there. Thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it also may be an agency choice. Because Debra's been very conservative.
I have been to in-person meetings at 1660 Blake, and they continue to be socially distanced.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I will ask the General Manager in her report to do an update on that very
topic, because I know that it is changing constantly. And I know that they meet on a regular basis. And it's
time to get updated again on how we're moving forward. But you're right, there are public meetings
starting to take place. I believe Denver City Council is now doing-- well, I've got to talk to Stacie Gilmore.
I'm not quite sure. But I know they're back in their offices.
So there is a lot of change going on currently and it's real fluid. So thank you for bringing that up.
Director Rosenthal, I see your hand. Do you still—
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, I don't want to-- I'm not trying to maybe rehash too much or be a stick in the
mud. So if we could maybe drill a little bit deeper on this order from the CDC. We may be a transit
agency. But at the same time, as was noted, there are changes, for example, in the socially distancing on
buses and things. But as a Board, we are not drivers, we are not operators.
We are dealing in an office situation. And to whether the CDC has maybe subsections of this order that
relate to whether it is on a bus or train versus meetings such as this. Do they have requirements for
offices and people who are a senior leadership team? Are there different requirements? Is it just a blanket
order, all employees, all transit agencies, at all time, versus is there any drilldown that we can look
further?
And I'm not trying to doubt anyone and what you know at this time. I'm just saying, could we look a little
further and deeper into this, into the orders that we can make sure that if it does or does not relate to us
as a Board or as leadership team, and how it relates to the public. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you for bringing that up. I would just also reiterate the fact
that our staff is down 50%. And so we literally have two staff people to organize all of that as well. And so
this is much more complex than that. But I do think I'll have the General Manager do an overview on the
CDC requirements, and not just locally, but federally the requirements for public transit and what does
that mean.
But then I think the other big piece for us, as a Board, is to recognize that we may not have the
infrastructure of the staff that's currently needed to put on a public meeting. Because we're going to kill
them. There's only two of them.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I get that. Fair enough. Fair enough. I want [INAUDIBLE] but I also want to
make sure that [INAUDIBLE].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Any other questions or comments? Going once, going
twice. All right. Seeing none, that's all we have on our agenda. So I'd like to see if we have a movement to
end this meeting. Yeah. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just a quick question. My bad, Madam Chair, my apologies. I'm just curious, as
Treasurer, I know I've been in once to sign checks and things like that. Is there any need for anybody to
come in and sign checks? Or is that kind of getting done well? And I just want to make sure that we're
paying our vendors and all that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Not to worry, Treasurer Rosenthal. What happens is that we get a call
weekly, usually to the Secretary, and he goes down and signs checks. If I'm there, I sign checks. If
nobody's available, they'll call you to come down and sign checks. Checks are signed weekly Thanks for
asking, though.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Good to know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thanks for checking.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Make sure we're all good on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Sorry for interrupting and stopping the train, so to speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's all right. So—

VINCE BUZEK: To adjourn. I move to adjourn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek, can you stay on for a moment?
VINCE BUZEK: I can.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anybody I'm opposed to it? OK, we are adjourned at 11:50. Thank you,
ladies and gentlemen. And—

