Aug 14 2018 0530 PM Operations & Customer Service
Committee Committee SD 480
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Returning on time. My name is Barbara Deadwyler, and I'm the
Chair of the Operations and Customer Service Committee. We have one recommendation
tonight, and this is for the award of an Access-A-Ride Call Center Services. It is recommended
by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager or his designee to enter in a contract for the provision of Access-A-Ride Call
Center Services with First Transit.
This contract is for three years, with two one-year options for a total five-year amount not to
exceed $15,114,226 dollars. This proposal represents the most responsive and cost-efficient
proposal received in response to requests for proposals, RFP, 18-DK-001 to provide Access-ARide Call Center Services.
The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective October 1, 2018. This
recommendation addresses two of the General Manager's 2018 goals, core goal number three,
strong financial management. I only see one goal here.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Move approval.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Can I get a second?
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Second.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Do you have a report for us, Larry? Michael?
MICHAEL FORD: How do I get this thing to work? OK. Yes. I just wanted to, You actually
summarized that very, very well. So if there are additional questions, I will be probably deferring
to Larry and Paul. They were part of the evaluation team, along with Carolyn Conover. And
obviously, we want to bring this forward for your approval tonight, or I guess for the next Board
Meeting, but your acceptance to move it forward. There were 14, or excuse me, 16 firms that
were involved, four that we did some interviews with. And the focus was on qualifications,
experience, technical, and price.
And the staff did a great job of evaluating all that, and made a selection. And obviously, there's
some cost savings involved in that as well. I will basically turn it over to them to give any other
updates or any more detailed information. But if you have any other questions at this time, I
would be happy to take those on.
LARRY BUTER: Well, I'm not sure if there are any additional questions. I think Director
Deadwyler and Mr. Ford.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yeah, we do have questions. I was just wondering if there's
anything you wanted to add? No? All right. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. How does this bid price compare with our current pricing?
LARRY BUTER: So the current price for the five years was roughly a little over $12 million
dollars. The current for the next five years will be a little over $15 million. And that could be in
part attributed to the increases to wages.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Anything else, Direct Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Director Sisk.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I was interested in the fact that in your write up,
you indicated that Midwest Paratransit had the lowest bid. But it didn't meet the minimum
evaluation criteria. Why were they even interviewed if they didn't meet the minimum evaluation
criteria?
LARRY BUTER: So Midwest Paratransit Services were among the four proposals that we
evaluated. Because they did not meet the minimum criterias, we did not invite them back for the
oral presentations. But they were still part of the overall review, 'cause they submitted proposals.
CHARLES SISK: But-- pardon me, if I may, Chair Deadwyler. I just want to understand the
process a little bit. If they don't meet the minimum evaluation criteria, why wouldn't they just be
kicked out automatically? Why you go through the process, knowing full well that they're not
going to be chosen? I mean, it would be really easy to get the low bid if they don't meet the
minimum.
[INAUDIBLE]
PAUL HAMILTON: I think I can add a little clarification to that. As Michael had started out by
saying, there were in fact 16 firms that met the minimum criteria for in terms of they applied.
The next step up was, do they meet the minimum criteria to be considered? In other words, to be
evaluated using our technical scoring system. And at that point, we did, in fact, evaluate four
firms. They were one of those firms. They scored low enough that, even though they were, in
fact, the lowest cost proposer, only 30% of the score was based on cost.
So when it came to their ability to have a high enough score to be considered for the oral
presentation, they simply didn't make the cut. They were one of two that did not make the cut.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you very much.
PAUL HAMILTON: Uh-huh.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Williams, do you have any comments or questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. Larry, have you guys been-- generically,
you've been happy with First Transit and the job that they've done?
LARRY BUTER: Thank you for the question. To be honest, we have been, especially in light of
the challenges that the call center has had in recent years. And of course, I'm referring to the
driver shortages, where, of course, no fault of their own, but the way that they've handled those
challenges were impressive. And I feel confident moving forward with recommending to the
Board, along with Paul and Mr. Ford, moving forward with First Transit for the next five years.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Madam Chair, one more?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Back to Larry again. My understanding is that we are working on some
new software programs with RouteMatch. And that again, it might be in our best interests to
stick with First Transit, because they have been involved with this from the get-go. Yes?
LARRY BUTER: It's true. First Transit has been instrumental working through the RouteMatch
issues. Of course, First Transit was here during the onset of installing the RouteMatch system, so
they are very familiar with the program.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Chair. That's all I have.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Folska, are you still on the
line?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, I am. Thank you, Director Deadwyler, Chair Deadwyler. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that the recommendation is a good one, but if I might indulge myself a
little bit. These three gentlemen really stepped up for me on an issue with a Paratransit customer,
and really thought outside the box. And it resulted in a favorable resolution, and I just wanted to
publicly thank the three of them for their hard work. It was very satisfying. It was the best news I
had all day.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I also have a question about the RouteMatch. And it seems like that was
going to, from the presentation that we had a couple of months ago or so-- or maybe a month-that was going to reduce a lot of labor in using that system. Would that be a correct analysis?
LARRY BUTER: There are many facets to the RouteMatch program and, perhaps, I think you're
referring the new IVR system that we incorporated with the assistance of RouteMatch. So in that

regards, it absolutely has reduced manpower in respect to contacting people prior to their trip's
arrival. It is now automated. Letting people cancel their trips, now automated. People inquiring
in terms of where their rides are and making sure that it was scheduled the night before-- all of
this has been automated.
Now, granted there are some people that will still want to talk to a human being. But by the
nature of creating an automated process, it's giving people options now.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So my question [INAUDIBLE] is, I've had to sign those checks
a few times just for the call center part. And that's hefty. Hefty. So is that really, really up and
rolling, and that this dollar amount reflects those labor changes? Or would we consider that still
in a beta stage and we're potentially committing more to this contract than we would need,
because we have labor savings coming up in five months?
LARRY BUTER: In as far as the IVR project, it has gone as far as it will go. So keep in mind
that we're still scheduling manually. People have to call and speak to an agent to schedule a trip.
That's the next phase through RouteMatch, and that'll give people the tools, whether online or
through their smartphone applications, to schedule their trips without that necessary phone call.
However, I can't sit here and tell you when that's going to be. It could be next year. It could be
three years from now. So it's hard to predict cost savings.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So if we did have a tremendous amount of cost savings and we got,
what, a three year here, what would we do? I mean, you know, we're just handing away money
then, right?
LARRY: So you're correct. We have a three-year plus two one-year extensions. At that point,
when we talk about the first of the one-year extensions, we may want to entertain reducing those
costs in light of the savings experienced by the call center.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Just for my own best feelings, I'll be voting no tonight just because I
don't quite feel comfortable with a huge technology improvement. And just thanks.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Menten. I think it's my turn.
[LAUGHING]
BARBARRA DEADWYLER: First of all, I want to thank the three of you sitting at the table,
I've have had some positive results and I've had some awful results as a Access-A-Ride ride user.
And I can just about imagine what some of our constituents go through on a daily basis.
My first question to you all tonight, is this contract just for Call Center? However, Dispatch is
part of First Transit also. Is this contract for both of those operations?
PAUL HAMILTON: The contract is the Call Center by name. The functions within the Call
Center are Reservations, Dispatch, and Scheduling.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. So, and I also want to thank you guys for getting the
systems installed. I think we had purchased them well over a year ago, and they're now being
installed in the vehicles, and I am getting positive results from drivers, that they really like it.
And I'm seeing them take their personal phones off the buses. So that's really a good thing.
But what are we doing in terms of trying to maintain the current drivers that we have? Because I
understand that they are leaving just as fast as we hire them because of issues which-- I can't tell
you what they are, but I'm sure it has to do with the way we are using First Transit, as well as the
contractor. What are we doing to fix this?
LARRY BUTER: So a little while ago, I alluded to the fact that we had driver challenges a year
or two years ago. And I will tell you that, looking at the stats, I haven't seen such low numbers as
far as the amount of routes that have returned to RTD in the AM for that day, as we're
experiencing now.
In 2017, we were used to seeing upwards of 20 to 30 route closures per day. Today, if we see
two, it's alarming. So to your point about losing drivers, I'd have to delve a little bit more into
that, because it's not being reflected in the stats. I'm just not hearing that on the streets, or
through the service.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. I believe you will, but maybe not today.
[LAUGHING]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Are there any other questions or comments regarding this
contract? OK. Let's go ahead and move to-- oh, I'm sorry. Director Solano.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Deadwyler. I think this is a good contract
if it's going to improve our disabled riders. I was the Past Chair of the Civil Rights Committee,
and I attended the Symposium in Chicago in 2017, and I was appalled by the situation that some
of these people across the nation that are disabled in wheelchairs and whatnot, what they have to
go through. And if this is going to help them in any way, I'm all for this. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Chair Solano. We can ahead and move to a vote. I
believe Director Anderson was the mover, and Director Solano was second. Can we take a vote,
please? Director Williams and Director Folska on the phone, could you give me your votes,
please?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams votes yes.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folska votes yes.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: All right. OK. This passed. 11 yes, one no. So it will move over to
recommended action at our Board Meeting. Thank you.

So now, I see we have several updates, and if we can move into the updates section. The first
update, Innovative On-demand Services.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, I wanted to give an update about things that we're trying to do around
innovation and on-demand services. Before I kind of get into that, I guess we need to get the
slide up. I really wanted to talk a little bit about our objectives. You know, why we're doing what
we're doing, what are our best practices in our industry, and around innovation.
What are some of the barriers that we have as we move forward? And what are we doing to try to
look at innovation in a creative way so we can provide the best solutions to our customers? A
little bit of history. Prior to the ADA in 1990, RTD provided services known as Handi-Ride They
were subscription trips for people with disabilities to travel to and from work.
With the passage of the ADA, Handi-Ride Services were disbanded or modified. RTD became
responsible for provisions of complementary Paratransit services for individuals with disabilities.
You can see from the screen where those services were operating at prior to us getting more
involved.
Next slide, please. And again, looking at our involvement over the years, we initiated programs
that included Access-A-Ride, Access-A-Cab, Call and Ride, Longmont Coordination, Centennial
Lyft, Lone Tree, and Lone Tree On-Demand and University Services. All but the Access-A-Ride
were designated to improve efficiencies to reduce cost.
When we think about our objectives moving forward, obviously, we want to have shared ride
services that are appropriate for the demand and complement our transit network of services or
our service standards. We want attractive services to our customers, suburbanian services, low
density areas, first and last mile, regular and reverse commute, and circular type services as well
in the neighborhoods and in other places.
And the other thing that complements all that is our fare. Compatible fare payments, making it
easier to integrate with transit and other demand service providers. In order to align ourselves
with nontraditional transit options, conversations shared ride providers are focused on leveraging
their models to develop a broad range of alternatives to all our passengers. That's another focus.
Obviously, we want to look around the industry. Looking at best practices. What are other people
doing? Providing shared rides with greater productivity than what are traditional TNCs
(Transportation Network Company). But some folks didn't have accessible vehicles.
Other things that we're seeing using via software, example at Capital Metro, was able to replicate
similar TNC efforts as a shared ride on demand service through apps by phone using their own
accessible vehicles.
Another example that we saw in terms of best practices, traditional agencies have challenges. I'm
going to talk a little bit about that, how we can deliver these services with the challenges that are
out there in terms of testing, and regulations, and so forth.

Our ability to serve low volume density areas and fix route service may not be feasible by
providing accessible connections to rail, bus, and Paratransit area services, but we're trying to
work toward that end. Next slide.
Some other best practices is moving a portion of our longest trips to the high-frequency services,
such as express, bus, and commuter rail. This can actually help reduce with our costs per trip,
increasing-- keep our services going, I should say, so that the service is beneficial to the
customer.
Our current Paratransit software deploys software in 2016. Here's an example of York Region
Transit. York Region Transit that was able to connect nine municipalities, including the City of
Toronto, with combined demand response, Mobile plus, and fixed route service, saving them
over $350,000 dollars during the first year of testing.
Obviously, we would have to look more extensively on eligibility assessments for our current
customer base. This would require us maybe making some changes on conditional eligibility.
This would include, but not limited to, ability to transfer, or being able to walk or wheel at least a
quarter of a mile.
So we're looking at these type of issues. We are working with Route Match right now, and we'll
be reaching out to York systems, and follow-up to really see what the realities are, how they've
succeeded, what are the challenges, whatever the experience, to determine how we might be able
to model some of the things that we're seeing out in our industry.
There are current pilots out there. I won't go into all of them. But I just want you, the Board, to
know, and others, that we are really looking to explore what we can do, and how we can take
some of the models out in the industry and operationalize them here. Obviously, there are
constraints, but you see a listing of current pilots out there. I won't go into all of them. But again,
add the teensy interface buttons to transit agency websites as one example, subsidized customer
trips. There are a host of others that we're exploring right now.
I mentioned some of the challenges that exist right now. When we're looking at services and
trying to look at innovation, there are constraints, like drug and alcohol testing, Title VI
discrimination and equity issues, ADA accessible issues, background checks.
And then, I know Lyft has been brought up many times again, drug and alcohol screening,
training, accessibility-- all of those things are sometimes impediments to trying to provide
creative services. And we're looking at ways to work through that, or around that, or with other
providers to see what else we can do.
Technology also plays a major role in TNCs, and we're looking at how we can utilize technology
in a more substantive manner to help us with coordination and scheduling. FTA has funded a
project to develop a new specification of RTD. And RTD has programs in 2019 that incorporated
in the C and R into open trip planning itinerary. So we're trying to work there.

We also have some collaboration going on with Mesabi, Uber, and CNT technology partner
demand transits for forming relationships to develop interfaces for seamless payment. So again,
those are issues that we're currently involved in right now.
More recently, you've probably seen a lot of the dockless bikes, and scooters, and all these
alternatives that have kind of been-- I wouldn't say the word thrusted, but been provided in terms
of helping us look at the last mile and things like that.
Obviously, when you're doing these kind of things, you've got to have the infrastructure. You've
got to have securement locks. And I also would kind of point out that even members of AccessA-Ride populations may still benefit from these types of services. Not all disabilities are visually
obvious, and not all required lift-equipped buses. So these could be possible solutions for
customers that we're working with.
Upgrades to our facilities and, again, also infrastructure will be an important component to
making this work more successfully. And again, technology. I can't overemphasize technology in
using apps to help with trip planning, Google Maps, other things like that, to help the ride
experience be as productive and efficient as possible.
Such a concept would allow our customers to plan their entire trip, their TNCs, or share bike and
scooters on short trips for the first and last mile. So those are other things that we're focused on
as well as we continue to make inroads.
The last slide, really, is just talking about some of the innovation and progress that we've made
so far. Trip exchanges. Access-A-Ride and fixed route integration. And also, we're looking at our
software, and seeing how we can improve it to be more efficient and work to getting people to
frequent schedules, where buses and commuter rail and light rail are running at a premium.
So again, we have more work to do, but I just wanted to give the Board the sense of some of the
complications, some of the innovations out there, some of the best practices. And we're
continuing to meet as a group to determine how we can move forward to be innovative, creative,
and provide the necessary services that people desire.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Mr. Ford. General Manager Genova.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Just to add on a couple of things. I want to
make sure the Board's aware of some information that we put out on Friday. And the Board may
recall that we started talking about part of my vision in this area of transportation transformation
at the beginning of this year.
And in fact, the senior leadership team, we spend an hour each week on Wednesday morning just
talking about transportation transformation. What does the future look like? What does a
sustainable future look like? Not just, what can we pilot, but what's going to work in the midterm and in the long run? And so, part of our work coming up on this transportation
transformation is we have a summit that we title from Transit Agency to Mobility Integrator.
And this Transportation Transformation Summit is going to take place on September 13th.

So we just solidified the date, and that's why we're providing the information to the Board. It's on
September 13th from 7:30 in the morning to 11:30. All the Board members, you'll all be
receiving invitations to this. We're working on finalizing the agenda now, but it will be full of all
kinds of different things about different kinds of mobility, things that are going on, and what
we're doing.
And our audience, really, is a lot of the local government transportation and planning staff and
transportation management associations and others. So we've had a small group convene that's
been working on planning this. And I just wanted to make sure, if you didn't see this in the
Friday memo, that you're aware of it tonight. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Mr. Genova. I must say, before I pass it on to this list
of Directors that have questions or comments, that I'm really pleased to see some new ideas
finally come out and look at innovative ways we can improve this type of service. So thank you
very much for at least bringing that out. Director Anderson?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. This is exciting stuff. And I really
appreciate staff looking at this. And I also appreciate the Transportation Transformation Seminar
that you're going to hold.
I think it would be nice to invite all the people that are running for the Board of Directors too
that, if it's possible, just because I think it would be good for them to know that we're looking to
the future and how we can make transit easier and better for everybody. So, thank you for being
innovative and looking at the future.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Anderson. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chairwoman. I, too, find this very exciting, and I'm really happy
that you guys are looking into the new stuff, what they call the disruptions, that are going to be
hitting all of us. So I think to get ahead of it instead of behind it is wonderful.
I was wondering how what you're doing, what you're describing, interacts with Mobility
Blueprint, as well as with the request for information that went out?
DAVID GENOVA: I'll take it. Thank you, Director Lubow. Yeah, so as the Board knows, we're
participating in the Mobility Choice Blueprint. And that that's just another part of the puzzle, I
would say, so that's one Mobility Choice Blueprint is one effort that's going on. It's a
collaboration between the Denver Metro Chamber, private sector, RTD, CDOT, and, of course,
DRCOG. And we're working towards, I believe, towards the end of this year, where we'll have
some product come out of that. We're looking forward to that product having some good ideas on
innovative ways and things that and pilots that we might be able to test out, and things like that.
So it really is running kind of concurrently with that. The request for information that you
mentioned, this summit, really, that we're doing is kind of a follow-up to that request for
information in a way to try to formalize ideas throughout the region. So one of the things that

we've been working towards is that RTD should be leading this conversation on regional
mobility, since we're the regional provider.
And so one of the things we discovered in the request for information is we had some companies
respond to that, and we wanted to work towards formalizing, how do we get some of these
services actually in place. And so, the next step that we felt was really collaborating well with
everybody within the region, so that we're working together on these next steps, and what would
be the valuable services that we could put into place.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. So is some of it interactive, or is it just RTD telling?
DAVID GENOVA: No, it'll be interactive. In fact, on the agenda as part of this regional mobility
strategy, we will have other folks participating and providing some information on some of the
pilots that they've done and things like that. And so soon as we have the agenda finalized, we'll
share that with the Board so you can see what it looks like.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I want to echo the thoughts that this is
exciting, innovative, it's collaborative, it's co-operative. The Transportation Transformation is a
great vision for our General Manager to have. And it is part of what we talked about for the 2019
goals, but it's good to see that it's being implemented and effectuated in 2018 as well.
And I think it's part of a vision that I have shared with some that the RTD, through these efforts,
can become the MTA agency in the United States of America. That means the most
technologically advanced agency in the United States of America. And that is part of my vision
for the RTD, and it fits right in with the Transportation Transformation, so I am delighted to hear
this report, so that the Board and the public have this information relative to what we are
accomplishing. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I've been asked to moderate a panel on this subject at Rail~Volution in
Pittsburgh. So this is really interesting right now. So I'm glad that RTD, in this region at least, is
leading the conversation. I don't know if we need to be the leading investor on this. Because I've
talked to some folks at other agencies, and as exciting as some of these TNCs are, there are still
problems that need to be worked out.
You know, certainly, you can look at a company with a big blue symbol, with an F on it, that
recently took a really big tumble because it was so technologically advanced, it kind of got ahead
of itself, and other folks, bad agents, were able to get in and infiltrate.
So Facebook took a big tumble in the stock market because it was so far advanced, and because
so many people were using it. Not everything has been vetted through. Same thing with some of

the agencies that have people from the agencies that I've talked to, who have been early
investors, and some were partners in some of these.
So I'm happy that we're having that discussion, but I don't know how much money we want to
sink into these until we know all the problems that are out there. And I think it was-- which city
or jurisdiction recently limited the number of TNCs out there? Was that New York City?
DAVID GENOVA: It was New York.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, in New York City. So as exciting as these are, they still come with
problems. I was speaking with my bus driver home yesterday. I was like are the birds and the
line bikes doing. And she said, those aren't the problems. It's the Ubers and the Lyfts that are the
problems, because those drivers just park anywhere. They stop in the bus stops because they're
usually vacant, because they're for our passengers.
So I'm all for partnering with them, as long as it makes sense for our customers and people who
are using our system, as opposed to using us as a secondary source.
And I think-- that's all. So great presentation. It's exciting. And I'm glad that we're a part of it.
And it looks like, as far as I'm concerned, we're on the edge, but with caution. Thanks.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chairman Deadwyler. I'd like to echo the thoughts that this is
exciting information. And it's my hope that through some of these partnerships and looking
creatively, we can leverage what we do best with what they do best, and hopefully increase our
ridership. So one small point. I did read the Friday memo. Thank you.
And I went to put it on my calendar, and I noted that it was at exactly the same time as the E-470
Board of Directors meeting, which I represent this Board on that Board. But I was reminded that
we might want to include those transportation agencies as well in the invitation, because in that
industry, they are very definitely leveraging technology. And I think that, especially at the
payment side of transportation, that there might be some opportunities to share ideas with those
agencies. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you Director Catlin. Director Sisk.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I think, again, this is very exciting, Michael and
Dave, for what you're doing. I would hope that you will be in the process of starting contacting
this little startup company up in Boulder called Google, and have them part of the program. I
think Scott Green-- and Scott is the head of Boulder, and he's very, very much involved. Comes
to a lot of MCC meetings. And so, hopefully, if you haven't contacted him, you will, please.
Because I think that will be a real hook for people. Thank you.
And if you need help, I'm happy to help.

[LAUGHING]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Sisk. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just real quick. On that license agreement with the dockless scooters-- I
think it's appropriate, yes-- are we charging them anything, or that's just as long as they sign the
agreement, they're able to-MICHAEL FORD: I believe there's two contracts right now. Do you want to-BILL SIROIS: There we go. This is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities. The license agreement, we did ask for a $10,000 fee. That is what we asked for.
We had a meeting with the providers on Friday. We did hear some pushback on that fee, and we
are looking for comments, additional written comments from them, in the next week or so,
before we make a final kind of draft of a license agreement that they're required to sign to be on
our property.
NATALIE MENTEN: What do we charge CDOT to let Bustang on our property?
BILL SIROIS: We don't charge them anything, I believe.
NATALIE MENTEN: But we'll charge private sector, to help us-BILL SIROIS: Well, I think with CDOT they were part of the Union Station Project, and so,
therefore, they were kind of allowed in, because they were a partner with us. So we are looking
at that right now, in fact. And I'm not the expert on it, but in terms of charging potentially other
private providers to be in Union Station.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes?
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Ausphaug, General Counsel. As far as the charges we're doing
for the dockless providers, there are substantial amounts of costs we're going to be having. We
are going to be painting the rectangles, essentially, on our property where the dockless vehicles
can be located. We're going to be doing quite a bit of work to make sure that they are corralled
and put in the proper location.
We did a pretty rigorous evaluation, because we know we can't charge more than what we really- what it would cost us, or else there'd be a suggestion that there might be a tax or something like
that. So we've done a lot of evaluation on that, and we'd be happy to provide that information if
that would help.
But we are charging much less than what Denver is charging. Denver is charging $15,000 to
each provider. But they are not doing painting, and moving vehicles around, and all of that.

DIRECTOR MENTEN: I notice that they're-ROLF ASPHAUG: They're not sharing with us.
NATALIE MENTEN: Go ahead. Sorry.
DAVID GENOVA: And I was just going to say, if I may, for Denver, that's just in City and
County of Denver. So keep in mind that our license applies to our entire operating service area.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So you asked for a little bit of feedback. I saw Denver's limiting the
amount of people, so they're limiting the market already, creating a premium, government
interference. When this is a wonderful disruptive service that, you know, you go downtown,
you're seeing people all over these things, and they can't be that much impact. Certainly not
compared to a big bus. So thank you for the other information. Go free market. That's the
comment. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Is that all, Director Menten? OK. OK. Are there any other
questions-- I'm sorry, Director Williams, do you have any comments or questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, indeed I do. Thank you, Chairwoman. Thanks, Michael, for all the
work, and Dave, that you guys are doing on it. I think that we really need to have a heads up,
because the city gave Chariot, actually, they gave it to the TMA, the Cherry Creek TMA, a
quarter of a million dollars to run a route that is running alongside one of our routes.
So my first question would be-- and this is kind of a rhetorical question. How come they didn't
give us a quarter of a million dollars run a shuttle along Spear? What are they doing about drug
and alcohol testing for the drivers of those shuttles that don't have to do what we have to do?
I know that CDOT is working on a variety of programs involving Chariot, and Lyft, and other
agencies. My question is, why isn't that us? You know, why does there even have to be another
alternative? Why doesn't RTD step up and do those things, and run those shuttles?
And I feel like the City and County of Denver is not our partner, and that maybe we need to step
up and ask them to partner with us more. So I love the Transportation Transformation, and that
we should be leading. But I see in some of the places that I'm moving, a lot of times, where there
are things going on that we are not.
I'm assuming you guys know that Chariot now is not parking at Civic Center Station, but the city
and county has made a place for them to park some place over near Broadway and 14th I think.
And I'm wondering, if that continues to develop, will the city be providing parking spaces for a
variety of alternative transportation providers that are not RTD? And how does that affect us?
So I'd just really like to see us at the city and county to partner with us instead of competing with
us. So that's all I have to say. Thank you for the opportunity.

DAVID GENOVA: If I may respond to just a couple items, Chair Deadwyler and Director
Williams. So many of the things that you cite, Director Williams, is exactly why we started early
in the year with this collaborative approach on wanting to be leading the discussion as the
mobility integrator.
Because one of my big concerns is that as we see other entities trying to do individual things,
they're going to put out services that really duplicates our service or replicates our service. And
so, we want to avoid that as well. And of course I think, as many of you know, the 83L operates
on a 15 minute frequency between Civic Center Station and Cherry Creek. So I'm not sure there's
a need for a shuttle when there's 15 minute frequency bus service already in place.
So it'll be interesting to see how well this other alternative plays out. There are other examples of
other shuttles, like the Lone Tree Link and others throughout the area. And of course, the Board
knows that we operate call and rides in 23 or 24 different areas of the city. We don't just do that
in the central location yet. But these are all things that we're looking at, and we'll continue to try
to work with all of our partners, all of the municipalities and counties to partner, as best we can.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Dave. And thank you, Director Williams. Director
Folska, do you have any comments or questions?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes. Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. Michael and his report, that was an
excellent, great presentation. Thank you for that. I wanted to just mention a couple of things.
Somewhere early in your presentation, you were talking about a quarter mile walking
[INAUDIBLE] for people. And even if people with disabilities can either walk or use their
wheelchair for that quarter mile, I hope it's always kept in the back of the minds of those folks
who are talking about it, what does it look like?
I mean, are you walking down Colfax, or are you walking down 2nd Street in Cherry Creek?
And I think that keeping in mind the road and how that actually is manifested, it really makes a
difference in a person's ability to traverse that area, especially if you have a disability. Or if
you're an older adult, you may have a sensory or mobility impairment, or a combination of both.
But I think this is an exciting time. Did you happen to research what the Transportation Research
Board may have weighed in on this at all?
MICHAEL FORD: We can follow up with them. I'm sure there's a lot of studies out there. But
we will endeavor to get that information and bring it back to the Board.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Great. Thank you so much. That's all, Chair Deadwyler. Thank you very
much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had a question on the shuttle service you were just referring
to. Is that a free shuttle that they're operating? I mean, is it kind of like a hotel that runs a shuttle

to the airport to bring customers, or is it like a shopping center that's running the shuttle for
people coming from a hotel district, or something like that?
DAVID GENOVA: My understanding is it's not going to be free. But I'm looking to see if there's
one of our staff members that's been involved in those detailed conversations.
JEFF BECKER: The Cherry Creek shuttle is not in operation yet. And it's still in the planning
stage. And so, I don't think they're planning on charging a fare, but it does go between Cherry
Creek and downtown, but probably a different route from the 83. It does provide good service in
an attempt, is what they're saying, is that to serve a market for employees to get to work at
Cherry Creek.
BILL SIROIS: One thing to add-- this is Bill Sirois again. I attended a meeting, a steering
committee meeting, on Friday with the Transportation Solutions and other folks from the
business district there, as well as a representative from DRMAC.
But the way that the service is currently envisioned, it's going to start off with a free period. They
were debating whether or not that's going to be a number of rides or a period of time, like the
first month free, and then charging after that.
They also talked about, it would only run certain days a week, and they're talking about three
days a week, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, to focus on the worker and those folks. And the route is,
like Jeff said, it's not going to mimic exactly a route. Right now, the proposal is that it would go
from the Civic Center down Broadway to 11th, and then back down on Downing, over to 1st,
and then to Cherry Creek.
So there's a lot of stuff that still has to be worked out. And I think it will be take a few months
before all those things get worked out and before they actually start the service.
BOB BROOM: One more question, then. Will the Business Improvement District at Cherry
Creek then buy the shuttles, and hire the people, and pay for the operating subsidies?
BILL SIROIS: So right now, like Director William stated, the City and County of Denver has
provided seed money of a quarter million dollars for the service. At the meeting, the
representatives there talked about raising money from the businesses in Cherry Creek to
supplement that $250,000 dollars, which would then affect how long they could run the pilot.
So that is still up for debate. So they're still a little ways yet before they'll know what their final
budget is and how long they can run the service.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. On that same thread, then, with the Chariot, although this was my
original question. So they're getting subsidized a quarter million dollars to start that up. Then at

our DRCOG RTC meeting-- I don't know if you were there that day, or Dave was there. But we
voted on multiple plans. Each plan was roughly going to get $100,000, because that was a
minimum, to a quarter million dollars, $200,000, to give to different TMAs.
I know Director Williams was there. I don't know if you were there, but I think Cherry Creek on
top of that quarter million, what we also voted on that day, and I voted no, no surprise-$100,000 or $200,000 dolalrs to also pay for the management, a manager of that. So there's
another additional cost coming-- were you there?
So I can't remember if Cherry Creek was in there. I think it was, along with Englewood and
some others. And so my original question, though, because I wanted to just throw in that extra
amount of money, another pocket it came out of is all I was going with that, is looking back now
at the Go Centennial Lyft program, compared to these others, Go Centennial Lyft was 10 trips a
day, and it was pulled after a short amount of time, six months.
And then we look at these others with 320 trips, 60 trips. We've got the Chariot just starting.
Looking back, because I never really knew what the answer was, why do we think there was a
flop with the Go Centennial Lyft. Who wants to take a stab at that?
BILL SIROIS: I'll let Jeff answer, but I think that if you talk to Centennial, I don't think they
think it was a flop. And certainly, from some respects, it didn't perform, but I think they learned
a lot in terms of what's viable and what's not. But I know that Jeff has a lot more of the statistics
that he's looked at than I have.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
JEFF BECKER: Well, I mean, we tend to go towards technology will solve our transportation
issues. But we need to look at what's the market.
NATALIE MENTEN: You may want to get a little closer.
JEFF BECKER: We need to be looking at, what is the market for these services, you know? Like
you're saying, what's the market for it, and what's the best way to provide the service. And then
the technology supports all of that.
And the Centennial Lyft Project ran exactly parallel to the Call and Ride, in that Dry Creek Call
and Ride in that same area. And we promoted it, promoted the Lyft to all of the Call and Ride
riders. We just handed out flyers. But it turns out that what's convenient for these customers is
not necessarily an instant call on the cell phone, but they want to have regular times of pick-ups.
Because these are commuters. They're not getting up every morning to figure out how they're
going to get to work.
So it was much more to it than-- and I think Director Walker was talking about that. It's not like
jumping into the technology first. It's like, figuring out, what's the best solution to the actual
problem. So they didn't get a lot of riders, but it was good to try that, in my opinion. I think it's

one of the best pilots that's been done in the entire country, the best documented one that I know
of.
DAVID GENOVA: And if I might add onto that, a couple other interesting things about that
pilot was, as Jeff stated, it ran simultaneous in an area where we have a Call and Ride. So it was
a great pilot for us to be able- because this was something that I'd been talking about doing on
our own, is to see whether, if you had a pilot like that in a call and ride area, are people going to
shift to the TNC-like service, or are they going to stay with Call and Ride?
And here, we predominantly saw that there was not a shift to the TNC-like service, but there was
a preference for the Call and Ride. And some of it was what Jeff described in terms of, well, I
know that Call and Ride's always going to be there. When I call for a TNC service, I don't know
how long it's going to be.
I mean, it might be a few minutes or 10 minutes or whatever. So there's that predictability around
the Call and Ride service. So I think it was really great, because that's something we probably
would have done anyway, that kind of a pilot, to see if there was a way that, will people really
shift to the TNC? Would that be less expensive for us and more cost-effective, and then replace
the Call and Ride? So it was very interesting pilot.
The other reason it was only six months, it was funded by I think a Bloomberg grant that they
only had six months worth of funding for. And, as Michael talked about in his presentation about
the barriers to these kinds of things, the biggest expense of that pilot was having an accessible
van available the entire time that the TNC service was available for those patrons that needed an
accessible vehicle.
So when you look at the cost of the trip and you add in all of the expenses-- so including the
accessible vehicle, and the call center, and all the other challenges and things, it was, I think,
around $29 a trip, or maybe even more-- maybe $39-- as opposed to a handful of dollars just for
a TNC trip.
So you know, it was very interesting, because it did point out a lot of the things that we're seeing,
and a lot of these factors, as far as the challenges that we have. And that's one of the reasons why
we haven't just implemented some of these things, because of the FTA rules that we have to
follow and other kinds of things.
NATALIE MENTEN: So in that same thread, then, we have this meeting coming up on
September 13th, which starts at 7:30 in the morning goes to 11:30. And that's a Thursday or
Friday or something. And when I looked it up to refresh my memory, we have a bunch of
government heads coming to this meeting.
And we just heard that sometimes what government thinks might fix a problem, we needed some
more feedback from the regular citizens. So maybe we should be looking at having a Saturday
meeting, where the public who works 8:00 to 5:00 would be able to participate in this, instead of
just the people who are paid to plan transportation, but don't always know exactly what the rider
is looking for to solve their problem.

DAVID GENOVA: And this is just one part of our process.
NATALIE MENTEN: I understand. But for future, just like I like 7:00 PM public meetings for
the public, Saturdays may be very nice.
[GAVEL POUNDING]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I'm so sorry to interrupt. We started off with this beautiful report
on innovation and talked about several things that we were doing. And now we've moved all the
way over to focus on one particular thing that I think we can talk about for another two to three
hours. So I'd like to go ahead and end this part of the session if you all don't mind, because we
have a lot more to get to tonight. So I hope I didn't offend anybody. Thank you all very much.
Let's move on.
MICHAEL FORD: OK. I just want to thank Jeff and Larry, and Paul as well. I appreciate your
help on this.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. We have several other updates tonight. And I'm hoping each
Board member, because the lateness of the hour, that you all have had a chance to go over all the
material that's left in this packet, and that we could be open for just questions. Does anyone have
any objections to that? Jessie, do you have a formal presentation?
JESSIE CARTER: We do not have a formal presentation.
MICHAEL FORD: We just want to give you an update for, the-- obviously-BARBARA DEADWYLER: Pardon me. Pardon me, Michael. Judy, you jumped in here.
JUDY LUBOW: I just wanted to say that I have an intense comment to make about the DL, LD
route changes. And so I don't know if that fits within your, Barbara, your purview of what would
be acceptable. But really got to jump in there, so I just wanted to tell you that.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: So we're getting to that, right?
MICHAEL FORD: We'll get to that.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Because we're opening up for questions. Is that right? Is that what
we're doing now?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah. We wanted to give you an update on both the August service change
that's about to happen on the 26th, and also talk to you about what we're looking at for January.
One thing I did want to emphasize as part of this process is, when we're looking at our service
changes, we are also making changes as a result of the CBA. And the CBA is an important
component to the quality of life for operators and how we're addressing their concerns and needs.

So I just want to emphasize that these changes that you may see, or updates to the service
changes, are part and parcel because of our contract and our need to fulfill that obligation. So
with that, I'll turn it over to Jessie. OK.
JESSIE CARTER: And in the interest of time, I will be brief. I did want to update the Board in
that the August 26th service changes showed a savings of about $1.9 million dollars. However,
after further examination of what was going on with our new rules as far as the collective
bargaining agreement was concerned, we had to go back in and take a look at a couple of routes
and restructure those routes a bit by adding hours to those. And that resulted in an increase of
costs of about $239,000 dollars annualized. So I did want to update the Board and state that, yes,
we did have those changes.
There were a number of other changes that we did, along with the August service changes that
were related to the CBA, but they didn't incorporate all of the changes. So that was what that
update was about.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Jessie. OK, Judy. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I am not happy with the proposed changes to the LD route. Basically what
it's doing is stopping folks from Lafayette and from Longmont, two of the cities that I represent,
from having a one seat ride to Denver. And instead, what it's going to do is force, basically force
everybody to be part of the Flat Iron Flyer.
And this is not making folks in my district happy. And it seems to me that it's a solution in search
of a problem. It's a route that is working, that meets the minimum requirements, except for one
of the standards for Saturday. It doesn't meet that. Well, then, change that. But instead, the whole
damn thing's being changed.
And basically, in a place in the Northwest corridor where we don't have rail, we're now being
told we don't have a one seat ride to Denver. I think that's nuts. I think that's very destructive,
especially at a time when we're having a ballot initiative that is going to, I think, really help
RTD, even though not directly.
But RTD is going to be getting assistance because there's a lot of BRT on there. And while that's
going on, while people are thinking about whether they're going to support this ballot initiative,
the people in Boulder County are being told, your service is being cut.
At the same time, we don't get the rail, and there's no guarantee when we will get the rail. And I
think it behooves us to understand that we're not operating in a vacuum at all. We're operating in
a political environment. The timing could not be worse in my opinion.
And Boulder County looked at the stats and basically said that three out of the four riders in this
basically healthy route are now going to have to transfer because of these changes. It's like, what
sense does that make? People don't want to transfer. Basically, I just think it's a mistake. And I
know that you're going to be contacted by Boulder County, by city of Longmont, by city of
Lafayette, and you're going to hear an earful from them.

And I think I would urge that you be very open to talking sincerely about making changes to this.
Because I don't think it makes sense. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. If I can make a comment to that.
JUDY LUBOW: Maybe.
[LAUGHING]
JESSIE CARTER: Well, one, thank you for your comments. I do appreciate your candor. At the
same time, I do want to clarify a couple of things. One, the one seat ride to and from Longmont
in the Lafayette area is still preserved on other routes. The LD1 and LD2 are two of the services
of four services that come from the area. So we are still maintaining the LX1 and 2 coming from
the Longmont area.
At the same time, one of the reasons why we're trying to get ahead of the change on the LD and
with the change to the 225 is a reaction to the fact that the CMAC grant is ending for the mid-day
service on the LD. And with the loss of that funding, the question is, what do we do next?
So this proposal actually answers that question. There are some improvements actually added
into normalizing the headway frequency along highway 287 that are also in the proposal. So
what we want to take out to the public is, here's this option of what we could do to preserve the
service on the LD and to actually improve mobility during midday. That's what the focus of the
grant was about in the area, without having what's right now, I'd say, the part of it is not
performing is the portion of the LD route that goes into the downtown area.
It actually does a really good service along 287, providing service between Longmont and
Lafayette. Where it falls short is in the performance, the ridership performance, coming into the
downtown area. And that service is actually covered by the Flatiron Flyer. So what we're trying
to do is combine what we already have, the major investment that we have in the US 36 and the
Flatiron Flyer, and connect that with the new service.
So we have been in contact with stakeholders to include Boulder County. We have been in
contact with the towns of Lafayette as well, the town of Lafayette as well. And we will continue
to talk to them and talk about alternatives throughout this whole process.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I respond please?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Absolutely.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. So my understanding that what has continued is the LX, which is
the express from Longmont to DUS. So if it's local, it's a two-seat ride now. You have to have a
transfer. And according to Boulder County, they looked at the numbers and they're saying, and it
seems like that three out of four people are going to now have to have a transfer. And these are
people that don't want to transfer.

So something's wrong about how we're analyzing this, but it really seems like there's a situation
in which the route is doing well, and for whatever reason-- it's doing well enough that it meets
the standards, at least according to Natalie. It meets our minimum standards.
JESSIE CARTER: As a whole, that meets our standards. But the segment going to downtown,
again, that's what is being changed on it, because the rest of the route would remain.
JUDY LUBOW: No, it wouldn't. Anything past 36 needs to change. If you're going to Denver,
you need to change.
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, what I'm saying is the LD from Longmont going down 287 to
Broomfield Park and Ride remains. It's the service south of there that is discontinued in favor of
the Flatiron Flyer actually providing that service.
JUDY LUBOW: But that's another way of saying the same thing. People don't want that transfer.
And we have a situation in which we don't have the rail, and now we're not even having the bus
going to Denver.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Is that something that we could probably take off line-JESSIE CARTER: It probably take another meeting offline where we could actually go into the
details.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. You can send me an email, but tell me what happens to
the bus service if the G line opens and the horns go quiet? You can send me an email, Jessie.
Thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: I will send you an email.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Director Sisk.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you, Director Deadwyler. I join Director Lubow and the concerns
about 225. Certainly, we've got to do a better job of at least addressing that, and I think it needs
to be single seat. And again, coming out. So I know this is the come out roll-- you play craps,
right? But don't want to hit seven or eleven, because that's [INAUDIBLE].
Secondly, it's not nearly-- has the same marquee, but it does for me, because the Y service. I
really think we need to find a way to provide that mid-day service for the people in Lyons. They
don't have service in Longmont, and now we're cutting service from Downtown Boulder.
JESSIE CARTER: I would want to add--

CHARLES SISK: Is that Uber opportunity? Do we run one bus instead of the two? But again, I
don't want to waste any more time.
JESSIE CARTER: Understood, but I do want to make sure-- within the detail of Attachment A
within the proposal, it states that the route Y, we're seeing three boardings per day on one trip
and four on the other. So those are not mass transit numbers, and it's really difficult to support
that service when we are having problems providing service on something that's carrying 40 to
60.
CHARLES SISK: [INAUDIBLE]
JESSIE CARTER: Understood.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Well, you're quite welcome, Director. We have several other
updates. I- 25 car fire incident.
MICHAEL FORD: We wanted to give you just an update on the incident that happened, I
believe, a month ago. And we brought Operations and Bus and Rail together to kind of discern
what happened, what we could do differently, and next steps. And. I'm going to have Dave
Jensen, AGM of Rail, just speak to the highlights of that.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I am Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations, and I understand
the time constraints we're in. So I know that you also received the packet, so I'll cut to the chase
the best that I can.
One of the things we want to do is ensure that we're providing the highest quality service at all
times. And so what happened was a closure on the tracks that resulted in us operating special
operations and having to work in conjunction with the bus side of the house.
So we conducted an evaluation, and we're very pleased with the way rail interacted with bus and
bus' response to it. But it also allows us an opportunity to really dig deep on the rail side to see,
from a holistic view, how we handled everything from announcements, to letting our passengers
know what's going on, to the way that we recovered our system, to whether or not we operated
our trains safely, and whether or not there were improvements that could be made. Do we have
policies, procedures in place that allow us to, in the future, operate efficiently and safely?
And so that was really the goal. We've had three meetings. We're still working. We found things,
as you would expect, that we could improve on, things that, as you would expect, that we did
well, that we were pleased with. And at the end of the day, we're still working to improve our
services, and it is our desire to provide the highest quality service and hope that these types of
evaluations will improve our service.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Any questions, comments from the Board? Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: What, so far, has been changed because of this analysis?

DAVID JENSEN: OK. So I want to be brief. There was some internal communications that
needed to be improved, so that the process has been changed. The way that we communicated
with our passengers in the stations, we fell short on. And so what we are changing right now is
we're putting in signs, new signs, that will provide a better visual display and audio display.
Currently, some of the signs we have, we don't know unless we go out there and physically
check whether or not they're actually functional. So some announcements may have gone out,
but we didn't know whether or not they were working. So we've changed as a process now to
ensure that we're regularly checking those.
We've changed processes and procedures from the control center. We've implemented this
procedure now that we're going to regularly evaluate how the controllers are handling the
system. So we've put a process in place, and we're still in that same evaluation process.
Everything from how the operator-- we had a train on the tracks that had the switch ends.
And so we've evaluated whether or not the way that the operator did that was safe, or did it put
our passengers at risk. So we've changed that process. So there's a number of things. I hope I'm
answering your question quickly and thoroughly.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. I just wanted to see practical things that were happening.
DAVID JENSEN: OK.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DAVID JENSEN: You're welcome.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Lubow. Anything else, Director? OK.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. When an incident happens near a rail line, whether it's a house
fire, or a car accident, or whatever else it might be, who determines whether it's going to stop the
rail service from continuing?
DAVID JENSEN: So that's a great question. The general state of our operation is, if you don't
know, don't go, is our mantra. So if the operators aren't 100% sure it's safe, they should stop.
That's in our rules. That's the way they should be taught. In this instance, however, it's the fire
department. Ultimately what complicated this was that the fire wasn't on our track area. It was on
the freeway.
And so the initial reports that we got from the sheriff's and the fire department were that we had
a fire near the tracks. So making that determination of how we were going to be affected took a
little bit more time than normal, but the fire department were the ones that made that ultimate
call. We couldn't send trains through. But we wouldn't have gone through anyway.

DAVID GENOVA: Typically, it's the local jurisdiction that is engaged in whatever the incident
is, will make that call about whether they'll allow us to operate through that area.
BOB BROOM: And how do they do that? I mean, do they flag you down?
DAVID GENOVA: They call us. So they're in touch with our control center. We received phone
calls from the sheriff department and the fire department. They informed us pretty quick.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I think that when I brought this up initially, I think it was
Director Folska that asked if maybe a simple sign could be put up at the stations that just
informed travelers of what they could use their smartphones for to access information. I didn't
know if that had been done yet.
I know that some of the people that talk to me about that episode weren't aware of some of the
apps, because they're infrequent users on the system. And just something simple like that might
be nice for our passengers to have. Oh, this is how we get information on RTD when we're on
board.
DAVID JENSEN: Those great suggestions, and those are the things that we take into
consideration on when we didn't do the job the way that we waned to. Yeah, so we're considering
those.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Folska, questions, comments?
Director Williams, questions, comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, Madam Chair. Thank you very much.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. OK. Let's see. We have a couple of other things on the
agenda here. Service Availability in the North Metro N Line.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. I'm going to have Fred Worthen speak to that. It's real quick update.
FRED WORTHEN: Good evening. I'm Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. It's an honor to
be here for the first time in front of this Board. So I'd like to talk very briefly about service
availability we saw a service availability rate in July of 99.57%. That's an improvement over
both June of 2018 and July of 2017.
I want to say that part of this improvement is due to our coach operator vacancy rates improving,
which I'll talk about very briefly. But I want to very quickly acknowledge the work that our
supervisors and dispatchers do. Everyday, our supervisors and dispatchers work with a different
puzzle. They face challenges with vehicles, they face security incidents, they deal with other
types of disruptions in our services, such as accidents.

And they also are just basically trying to manage the general increasing traffic conditions of the
region. Every day, these folks, it's a different work environment. They do a masterful job of
preserving our services. They save thousands of hours of service for us each year. So I just want
to acknowledge their good work.
We also recently reached an agreement with the ATU to temporarily use street supervisors to
subsidize our coach operators. If we are short on coach operators, we have none available, and
we are in jeopardy of losing service, we can use a street supervisor to help recover services.
We're also seeing positive impacts of our current bargaining agreement, not only with the
improvement in salary, but with some of the changes in working conditions. We are seeing some
attrition challenges that we have, seem to be leveling out. Some of the improvements include
increasing the number of straight work runs that our drivers can vote or bid, reducing the
maximum amount of time that a driver has to be at work everyday to actually be paid, and also
improvements in the recovery time for our operators, so they have a little more time at the end of
the line to do things like use the restroom, get food or drinks.
There are impacts from those changes. For example, this fall, we will operate less hours than last
fall, but we will require about 19 more individuals to do the same work. But that's a positive
change for us over all, though. We are actually seeing that our employees are very much
appreciative of the changes to the working environment. We've also, as you're probably familiar
with the term mandates, we have been using mandates for several years now, where operators are
required to work overtime. We are seeing a reduction in the overtime mandates since the
beginning of the summer. So that is also helping with some of our retention efforts.
And with regard to recruitment, we are currently-- at the beginning of the year, we were lucky to
see five or six people in a coach operator class. We are experiencing classes now ranging from
12 to 20 students per class. Since the pay increase also, we have seen the number of people
graduating increased. Since the pay increase took effect, our graduation rates have improved to
90%.
For me, though, the bottom line is, how are we doing with regard to net gain? Last year, from the
beginning of the year through the end of July, we only had a net gain of two operators. This year,
we have had a net gain of 54 operators. So we actually started out 175 coach operators short. We
have reduced that to 121. So we've actually seen a 30% reduction in our coach operator
vacancies.
I do want to point out one thing, though, that we have not discussed very much with you, but
we're experiencing challenges also within our general repair shop and vehicle maintenance.
Currently, we have 22 vacancies in our general repair shop. That's a 14% vacancy rate.
And again, not only do coach operators have an impact on our ability to deliver services, but if
we can't keep our buses running, then that has impacts also. We are doing some things to try and
address this. We have some graduates coming up from our Diesel Training program, which we
hope will come to work for us.

We're also looking at some modifications to our recruitment program that may help bring more
mechanics to the RTD. But I will say that, unfortunately, attracting mechanics is a national
problem for the transit industry itself.
So those are the main things. And again, we're continuing all of our recruitment efforts, doing
special events, and working with our partners. But we are really starting to see some positive
trends, and I was just very happy to see the results of some of the reduction in our coach operator
vacancies over the last few months. [INAUDIBLE]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you for that wonderful report. Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chairwoman Deadwyler. Good report. I like the whole driver hiring
situation. When you mention mechanics, a thought occurred to me is, we do a lot of our own
component rebuilds, which takes mechanics to do. I'm wondering how the CBA addresses
purchasing components that are already rebuilt and bring them into our inventory, things like
engines, transmissions, differentials-- that kind of thing.
FRED WORTHEN: I would have to be perfectly honest with you. Since I'm only two months
into the job, I don't know all the ins and outs of the CBA. And-LARRY HOY: You know what? The time is late. We don't need to get bogged down, but I'd sure
like to know how that works.
FRED WORTHEN: That's what I was going to suggest, is that if you don't mind, I can take the
question offline and get you an answer back.
LARRY HOY: Like minds. That works. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Hoy. Director Solano.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman. I'm positive that you're doing the right
things, because it seems like you are. And in my area, District K, there's a small minority of
constituents think that they deserve more. And I think you just explained the reasons why we've
been having trouble with human capital, and mechanics are a problem.
And that's a lot of the reasons that we have dropped routes. And a lot of these people in these
areas do not understand that. And I think what you just said verifies the fact that we are doing
more, and continually, we're going to do more. And thank you. You're doing a great job.
FRED WORTHEN: Appreciate that.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Solano. Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I know this goes without saying, and it
relates to comments that were made by Heather McKillop earlier. And you've made a similar
comment here now relative to "I will get you that information."
Just for the sake of this record, so that the public and everyone knows, whenever that comment is
made in this Board, it is intended and understood that all Directors will receive whatever
information there is. We do not have singular provision of information to one Director over
another.
And I just say that for the sake of the record, and to kind of help indoctrinate you as well so that,
yes, we always use that phrase, but it means y'all, not just you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. I understand. And that was my intentions. My apologies.
DOUG TISDALE: No, No apology.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Williams, are you still there?
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, yeah, I'm still here. But I have no comments. Thank you very much,
Madam Chair.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. OK. Let's move right along to the North Metro N Line
operation and maintenance status report.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, we have a report to give you an update. It's a brief, high-level update.
And we'll be coming back sometime over the next couple of months to give you a more in-depth
understanding, and also-- excuse me-- understood that some information regarding the start up of
when that was going to happen. It did identify 2020, but there were some caveats to that. And
that's going to depend on our contractor and other things.
So I guess we'll touch upon that in the report, but I just wanted to acknowledge that up front.
And with that, Allen Miller, Jeet, and Dave will kick off the presentation.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening, again. And I have good news and bad news. The bad news is I
do have a formal presentation. The good news is we won't use it, and we'll move quickly through
it, because we do have staff and we can answer questions. I do have Jeet Desai with me, Project
Engineer, Allen Miller with me, Senior Manager of Commuter Rail Operations.
In the crowd, we also have in the seats is Jyotsna Vishwakarma, and Chuck Culig. Jyotsna is
Chief Engineer and Chuck Culig is North Metro Project Manager. So I think amongst us, we
should be able to answer the quick questions.
We were going to give a 30,000 foot view. I'll try and give 100,000 foot view for you. I think
maybe some of the highlights might be that we adopted a budget for North Metro in 2017.

The line we're scheduled to open will be 13 miles, adding six new stations, 2,600 new parking
spaces. I think one of the highlights might be that it will also have Colorado's longest bridge,
which will be 9,533 feet.
The process that we're using is involving the FRA, PUC, and RTD collectively early and often,
which I believe is a lessons learned. The idea is for us to get their involvement and interaction
with us, so that we don't repeat some of the mistakes that may have been made in the past.
And then maybe another highlight for you might be the plan for us to purchase a rescue
locomotive. Which, it's intended to be used on the North Line to rescue disabled vehicles on the
North Line, with the intent of being able to implement that rescue within 30 minutes. I know the
details are in your packets.
So you could ask further questions, if you like. And I think that's my 100,000 view.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Wow.
DAVE JENSEN: But I'm thinking you have some questions for us maybe that we can-BARBARA DEADWYLER: I think Director Solano was first in line. Director?
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman. I'm the Director for District K, which a
big portion of the North Metro goes to my district. I was at a briefing last week. Go ahead. Do
you want to talk? Go ahead. Take your time.
DAVE JENSEN: One of the things that we wanted to clear up on the packet was that the facility
for maintenance of way in the packet, it states that it's going to be at Steel. But we haven't
confirmed that yet. So it's the preference for us, but we're still looking at alternatives. She was
just passing me a note to make sure that you got the right information.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Well, thanks for interrupting. OK. What is the start date for North
Metro? I mean, I've been getting a lot of flack. Initially, they said '18. And then they said '19.
Now they're saying '20. What is the date?
DAVE JENSEN: We can't give an exact date. It is contingent upon the contractors. So when
that's completed, and the testing's is completed, then we should be able to open. We think spring
of 2020 right now is the date that we're targeting.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: OK. That's not what I want to hear, but thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Solano. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Deadwyler. I wanted to kind of reiterate what Paul Solano
said. We were at the elected officials meeting for the North Metro, and there was no staff there.
Dave was gone. He wasn't around. And there were the three of us. There was Director Hoy,
Solano, and myself, and people descended upon us like vultures on a carcass.

And it was not friendly. Well, actually, it was friendly. But it was basically, it was saying, you
guys do not communicate well to us in a way that we can give to our constituents and tell them
what's going on. Even if you have something negative to say, tell us. It's just not working.
I mean, this was a room full of people, all saying the same thing, that your communication about
what's happening with a start date is not working. And I don't really know what to say in terms of
conveying the sense of unanimity, of this whole group of people saying, we we're not your
enemies, we're your friends, but you are not giving us what we need to talk to our constituents.
So that is an issue that I think is very real and we've had for a long time, in terms of, if there's a
problem, we kind of put our heads in the sand. And that is not what the public wants, at least
that's my opinion. I don't know if Director Hoy or Director Solano who was there wants to
comment on it, but it was an interesting event. Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: If I just may, Chair Deadwyler. I'm sorry I wasn't there. I was scheduled to
be there. But unfortunately, I wasn't able to be there. I understand the stakeholders' frustration
that we haven't been able to give them an opening date. And I know that they want a date. But
we have communicated very often, and I've been to most of the North Metro elected officials
meeting. And I believe, Chuck, were you there on Thursday?
Our project manager, Chuck Culig was there, and Lisa from our communications group. So we
did have some staff. We just didn't have myself, or Henry, or others. So I realize there's a
frustration because we can't give an actual date, and even maybe a quarter that that would
happen. But we really need to see the progress that the design build contractor's going to make,
and then get turned over to us for substantial completion.
We're hoping that's going to be in the Fall of 2019, that they'll turn over to us, and then we'll be
able to get into the testing, and then get into, probably in early 2020, opening. But that's the
information that we can provide, and we have provided that on a number of occasions, because I
know I've been in the room, and have either said it or have heard it. And not just at North Metro
elected officials, but also at NATA (North Area Transportation Alliance).
So I know it's been out there, and I know there's frustration, but we have been talking about it to
a degree.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I respond? I'm sure that's true, because I've been at the NATA meetings,
and we give some information. But they're saying something else. And I think it would be
behoove us to speak with them about, what exactly do you want, knowing that we can't give you
exactitude? But they're saying they're not getting enough information that they can give their
constituents, even if it's bad information. They'd rather have that than nothing to say. So I think it
would be useful to speak with them.
DAVID GENOVA: Certainly.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Lubow. Is that all?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. On the rescue engine, can that only be used on the N Line,
and is that because of this big, long bridge? Or if there was a problem on the A-Line again, you
wouldn't be able to pull it over and use it?
ALLEN MILLER: So, good evening. This is Allen Miller, Senior Manager for Commuter Rail
Contracted Services and acting DAGM for the standup Commuter Rail System. Yes it, can only
be configured for this system based on head heights and based on catenary heights and bridge
heights. It was originally conceived to be for this corridor. We are in the process. We have the
PR in place, and we are basically putting it out for procurement at this point, and we have put in
that procurement for consideration for an additional rescue locomotive to be considered for the
Eagle project as well.
However, that particular locomotive would have to be configured for the A Line and for the G
Line specifically, because there are corridor constraints that are different from the N Line.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you very much. And then the other question I had was, I'm not that
familiar with this alignment. Does this follow an existing railroad line, or is this just all going
through virgin territory?
ALLEN MIILER: A good portion of this is the original Boulder Industrial League coming out of
Suncor property. And basically, after you get up to 124th, after that, it is the Boulder Industrial
League going forward from 124th.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Solano.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Deadwyler. I was just going to add that it's
kind of disheartening when we go to these meetings that are publicly held, and we're pretty much
attacked by our municipal partners, and we pretty much were a dead target OK.
And it kind of really makes it difficult as a Director to remain relevant, transparent, and
diplomatic, OK. And if we don't have good information, and it's not communicated well through
our communication department-- and I think we are. I think we have a great communications
department. But I think we need to do a better job in communicating with our municipalities.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you Director Solano. Director Williams, any questions or
comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, thank you, Madam Chair. I have nothing to say on this.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Well, it looks like we've made it through this agenda.
NATALIE MENTEN: I have other matters and I have one question.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yeah, I have other matters.
[INAUDIBLE] OK, You have a question regarding the last topic or other matters?
NATALIE MENTEN: Others matters.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: We are now moving into other matters. Natalie, you have the floor.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Just a very quick question. In our clips from today or
yesterday, whichever one it was, there's a travel organization listed that says, allowing animals to
travel on our trains. And it is highlighted in here, so I'm going to read from it. Because I thought
it was-- well, what it says is Denver allows, of course, service animals. Don't need special ID.
Other pets are also welcome as long as they're carried in a rider's lap, in an appropriate enclosed
container.
And what I'm just wondering is, as I've seen this used in some other transit centers around the
country, let's say if I wanted to put my 100-pound dog in a bag and fit it on my lap, I can do that?
That's my question.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Anybody gonna answer it?
NATALIE MENTEN: He's been on my lap before. I know I can do it. So. But that is my
question is, would that be allowed?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Deadwyler, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. We'll take a look
at the Code of Conduct and get back with you on that. I believe there are specific provisions
about that. I don't have an answer for you right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I did look up the Code of Conduct, and it's simply got a statement
about animals, but it is looking to me like I could do that. And I may want to do that. I'm simply
asking.
ROLF ASPHAUG: There are additional provisions in the Trailblazer. And the Code of Conduct
does contain kind of a catchall. If we haven't thought of it type clause, you also still have to
comply with other rules. We'll take a look at that.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And I will-ROLF ASPHAUG: Don't put the animal on your lap yet.
[LAUGHING]

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I don't know. [INAUDIBLE]. But I do just want to mention then,
other since this is under Customer Service and Ops, In the Englewood meeting, when we were
having a pretty good discussion about the fair proposal, there were a couple of people that
mentioned that, at times, we're running into dog feces in the ADA seating area because of service
animals.
And there were a couple of people noting that it's not just been like, one incident. And also
bringing up that service animal snake. There's a snake that's going around and that's come up
through a few people. So, you know, just sharing that. And the snake is not the one leaving the
problem. It's the dogs.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug again. If I could comment just very briefly. Staff has
recently taken a new initiative to try to deal with some of the issues about dogs not having any
kind of vaccination tags or rabies tags. And rabies tags are required for all dogs in all of the areas
that we go through.
And we're now going to be saying, as a procedure at RTD, that if an animal does not have a
vaccination tag, regardless of whether it's a service animal or not, it cannot ride on our buses or
be in our facilities. That's one way to try to deal with some of these issues.
We have to be careful, though, because we cannot require service animals to have vests or any
other sort of identifying characteristics.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Yeah, it is how these dogs started out, then there's cats, guinea pigs,
all sorts. There's potbelly pigs. There's whole animals just popping up each day almost. So I just
wondered. All right. Well, thank you. I was interested. Thanks. Since it was in our PR clips,
telling travel travelers, you're free to bring your dogs and everything. OK. All right.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK. Is there any other matters from anyone? OK. Our next
meeting date is September 11th. It is now 9:16, and I declare this meeting adjourned.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

