1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
Second Vice Chair – Noel Busck, District K
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – John Tayer, District O
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bill Christopher, District J
Matt Cohen, District M

Bill James, District A
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Wally Pulliam, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
(Revised – Added Exec Session Item)
Tuesday, February 17, 2009 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Rex Delaney, Supervisor, Body Shop – 30 Years of Service
Jim Rockhold, Street Supervisor – 30 Years of Service

IV.

SPECIAL VOTE
A.

RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2009, Honoring Contributions by DBE/SBE Staff
Office as Model for Successful Program

Special Acknowledgement Awards

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

V.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Christopher
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director McMullen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Brohl
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
GM Evaluation Committee – Chaired by Director Busck
CDOT – TBD
E-470 – Director Busck
ACED – Director Busck
DRCOG - TBD
Denver Union Station Advisory – Director Chacon
Northwest Parkway-Chair Kemp and Director Pulliam
Pension Committee - Director Pulliam
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Christopher
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp

VII.

METRO MAYORS’ TASK FORCE REPORT

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JANUARY 20, 2009 AND SPECIAL
BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 3, 2009

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
B.

RTD Annexations of Land Recently Annexed By Local Municipalities and Revised RTD
Boundary Map and Description
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised boundary map of the District and authorize the Board
Secretary to certify the boundary map and description and that lands newly annexed to
RTD pursuant to the provisions of CRS 32-9-106 be designated as part of Director
Districts F, G, H, I, and K, as appropriate.

C.

Construction Contract Award US-36 & 116th Ave. Bus Transit Facility/Broomfield
Events Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a construction contract to Jalisco International, Inc. in the amount
of $8,380,637.45 for the US-36 & 116th Ave. Bus Transit Facility in Broomfield at the
Broomfield Events Center. Funding for this contract is included in the 2009 Adopted
Budget for the FasTracks Program.

D.

Intergovernmental Agreement with the Downtown Denver Business Improvement
District (DDBID) for the 16th Street Mall Paver Rehabilitation Plan – Phase I
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and execute an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the Downtown Denver Business Improvement District (DDBID)
up to and not-to-exceed $100,000 for the 16th Street Mall Paver Rehabilitation Program
– Phase I. Funding for this project is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget.

E.

Permanent Easement and License for Construction to Denargo Market, L. P. for
Drainage Near District Shops at Approximately 3100 31 st Street, Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to convey
a permanent easement containing 4,826 square feet (0.110 acres) and a license for
construction containing 12,048 square feet (0.276 acres) to Denargo Market, L. P. for
the construction, operation and maintenance of a storm water line and storm water
outfall to be placed upon RTD property bordering the South Platte River and located at
approximately 3100 31st Street, Denver, Colorado.

F.

Recommendation for Approval of the Fourth Year (2009) Contract Award with AECOM
Consult for FasTracks Travel Modeling, Transit Operations, and Rail Simulation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fourth year contract award to
AECOM Consult for FasTracks travel modeling, transit operations analysis, and rail
simulation modeling. The contract is for one year with two one-year renewable options
at RTD’s sole discretion. The contract will be for the not-to-exceed amount of
$600,000, and will be awarded on a work order basis. Partial funding for the contract
is contained in the 2009 RTD expense budget the FasTracks and capital budgets.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $85,000
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the FasTracks modeling expense budget to
provide the remaining funding for this contract in 2009

G.

Recommendation for Contract Award to LS Gallegos for the FasTracks
Independent Cost Assessment Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to LS Gallegos to
perform an Independent Cost Assessment for the FasTracks program. The
contract award will not exceed $360,000. Funding of $300,000 is included in
the 2009 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks program.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of
$60,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to fully fund the cost of this
contract. This action will accelerate future year funding for project administrative
expenditures to cover the full cost of the Independent Cost Assessment.

H.

Recommendation for Loan from RTD to Denver Union Station Project Authority
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that RTD enter into an
agreement to loan the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) $1.5 million
payable in three monthly installments commencing on March 1, 2009 for the purposes
of covering DUSPA operating expenses until such time as DUSPA has funds to cover
project costs and its own operating expenses.

I.

Budget Transfer for Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility Environmental Assessment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a budget transfer in the amount of $700,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) budget for the purpose of
completing the Environmental Assessment (EA). The requested transfer covers
additional alternatives analysis on reconsidered sites, public involvement, and
conceptual design, investigation, environmental analysis, and documentation of the
recommended preferred site.

J.

Recommendation for Grant of Easement and Utility Construction Agreement with
Central Platte Valley Metro District at 18th Street and the Consolidated Main Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that RTD grant an
easement to the Central Platte Valley (CPV) Metro District for construction of a
pedestrian bridge at 18th Street and the Consolidated Main Line (CML) in Denver, and
contract with the CPV Metro District to perform utility relocation that will be required
for Denver Union Station (DUS) in an amount not to exceed $150,000.

K.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
CIBER Inc. an increase in the third-year current contract for IT Technical and
Management Support Services (15DK008). This is an increase in the contract limit
with a not-to-exceed addition of $250,000 to support the automation of FasTracks and
RTD invoice payments using our Enterprise business systems.
This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to CIBER Inc. through the competitive bid
process to support the Transit Information Exchange System (TIES) and other
technology initiatives, such as Enterprise Content Management. CIBER was one of
three firms selected out of approximately fifteen in an open-competition in 2006 and
provides a wide variety of technology professional resources for project specificdelivery. The work order contract has a specified 15% SBE/DBE participation. CIBER
has met this goal using sub-contractors American Automation, RTL Networks, and
Allegory.

L.

First Amendment to Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement – RTD Commercial Paper
Notes, Series 2001
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board approve
the attached First Amendment (the “Amendment”) to Issuing and Paying Agent
Agreement (the “Agreement”) between U.S. Bank Trust National Association (the
“Issuing and Paying Agent”) and the Regional Transportation District.

M.

2009 Fiscal Policy Statement Revision
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors update and modify the Fiscal Policy Statements, Budget Policies – Item 11,
regarding the District’s requirement to prepare a balanced budget.

N.

U.S. Leveraged Lease Modifications and Funds Transfer Request
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the General Manager

be authorized to enter into revisions to the Participation Agreements and to transfer
$591,000 from the General Counsel’s Workers Compensation budget to the
Administration Debt Management budget to fund a 2008 accrual related to the revision
of the 1997-A, (dated July 1, 1997) and 1997-B (dated December 12, 1997) U.S.
Leveraged Lease agreements between the Regional Transportation District (Lessee) and
EntreCap Financial LLC (Lessor) required as a result of downgrades in the credit ratings
of Ambac and AIG. The total 2008 accrual based on current estimates for this
obligation will be $691,000. It is further recommended that the General Manager and
the Manager of Debt and Investments be authorized to execute such documents,
transfers and security agreements as may be necessary to effectuate the revisions to
these transactions which are necessary to avoid an Event of Default as defined in
transaction documents.
It is further recommended that RTD be authorized to pay EntreCap Financial LLC
(Lessor) fees and legal expenses related to the lease revisions in an amount not to
exceed $500,000, RTD consulting fees with Matrix International not to exceed
$100,000 and related RTD legal fees with the firm of Pepper Hamilton in an amount
not to exceed $200,000.
O.

Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents that may be necessary to extend the contract for sale and development by
and between the Regional Transportation District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350
South Santa Fe through June 30, 2009.

P.

Award of “Group 20” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of “Group 20” contracted fixed-route transit services with First Transit, Inc.
This contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed $62,271,383 with two (2)
one-year options in the amount of $22,350,156 (option year 1) and $23,135,466
(option year 2), for a total five year amount not to exceed $107,757,005. In addition,
RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
approximately $15,453,432 for the initial three year contract term and $26,531,908
for the five year period. This results in a contract amount not to exceed $77,724,815
for the initial three year contract period and $134,288,913 for the five year period.
This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in
response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 18-DH-020 to provide “Group 20” Public
Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be
effective with implementation of Group 20 service effective August 23, 2009.

Q.

Cost Sharing Agreements- FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the
Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA
Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and
Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2009 and for amounts not
to exceed $316,050 for Boulder County, $130,053 for Adams County and $96,379
for Jefferson County.

R.

Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents

necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and
adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and is
for an amount not to exceed $1,339,351.

XI.

S.

Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Englewood/Art shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the Art shuttle circulator bus service
in the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and is for an
amount not to exceed $297,939.

T.

Colfax Transit Enhancement Project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into Agreements with the Colorado Department of Transportation
(CDOT) and the City and County of Denver (CCD) to implement the Colfax Transit
Enhancement Project and to transfer $3,562,200 from the Transit Development
Reserve fund to implement this project pending reimbursement to RTD from the CDOT
SB-1 grant program.

U.

Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year
2009 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $565,000.

V.

Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the NFR VANGO vanpool program
in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and shall be
in an amount not to exceed $450,000.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
W.

RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2009, Regarding the Regional Transportation
District Paying for Transit Related Group Events

X.

Requested Name Change for “Convention Center/Performing Arts” LRT Station
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the change of name from RTD’s current “Convention Center*Performing Arts” LRT

station to “Theatre District/Convention Center” LRT station as requested by the
City/County of Denver and further authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City/County of
Denver for Denver to provide funding for the out-of-pocket costs associated with
implementing the requested name change.

XII.

Y.

Approval of May 3, 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 3, 2009 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$6,806,860, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

Z.

RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2009, Service Reductions in 2009

EXECUTIVE SESSION
1)
2)

C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) – Labor Contract Negotiations
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) – Contract Negotiations DUS

XIII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS

XV.

ADJOURN

