Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 18, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
February 17, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call.
Director Cohen arrived after roll call.

Director Chacon was absent and

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were two retirees for this month. None was present to receive his award.

IV.

SPECIAL VOTE
A. RESOLUTION NO. ____, Series of 2009, Honoring Contributions by DBE/SBE Staff Office
as Model for Successful Program
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved for approval of the resolution honoring
contributions by the DBE/SBE Staff office as Model for
Successful Program.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

V.

The motion PASSED 14 in favor and 0 against. Director Chacon
was absent.

SPECIAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AWARDS
SBE/DBE Committee—Chair Kemp and Director Martinez, Vice-Chair for the DBE/SBE
Committee, jointly presented this award to recognize the DBE/SBE Committee on behalf of
their work in building a model DBE/SBE program. Kenn Hardin, SBE/DBE Outreach Officer, and
Tye Perry accepted the award on behalf of the Committee.
Director Martinez remarked it is the small businesses that keep the economy rolling. The
SBE/DBE committee works with our small businesses to make sure they can compete, provide
training and mentoring services so these businesses are prepared to bid like everyone else and
provide top services.
Kenn Hardin thanked the RTD Board, Cal Marsella and Phil Washington for this recognition and
introduced the rest of the team. He acknowledged the hard work of the team and graciously
accepted the honor for having one of the best DBE/SBE programs in the country.

Reverend Rayford Pouncy—In honor of Black History Month, Chair Kemp and Director
McMullen recognized Reverend Rayford B. Pouncy as one of the first five black men hired by
the Denver Tramway Company, a forerunner to the Regional Transportation District. He was
presented with two awards: The first award provided a historic reflection of the period that he
worked for the Denver Tramway Company and the second award was a plaque honoring
Reverend Pouncy. Reverend Pouncy accepted his award with grace, provided a little
background history and complimented RTD for keeping good records.
Director Barbara Brohl—On behalf of the RTD Board of Directors, Chair Kemp presented an
award to Director Brohl for her selection as the outstanding Hispanic Lawyer of the year.
Director Brohl commented that we are all connected and that everyone wins when we all work
together.
VI.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Chair Kemp recognized two former Board members in the audience, Director Rose and
Director Jack McCroskey.
Prior to the public participation, Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Services, was
asked to provide an update on the recommended modified service changes. Bruce Abel
provided this information:

Route 410 will provide limited peak period trips in the a.m. and p.m.

Route 465 is affected but Route 65 will be extended to travel between Ulster/Tufts
and Arapahoe at Village Center Station

The Highlands Ranch call and ride has been removed from the elimination list due to
the public comments input about its affect on the disabled and the subsequent
negative impact on the access-r-ride users.

Route 145X will provide two trips during the peak periods.

Longmont Call-n-ride—The City of Longmont and Special Transit Services of Boulder
County have committed to RTD to provide appropriate funding to enter into a cost
sharing agreement with RTD to allow for the continued operation of the Longmont
call-n-ride service at a reduced level of service from that currently provided. The
parties have agreed to the following level of service for the Longmont call-n-ride:
Monday-Friday:
6:30 AM- 11:00 AM-2 buses
11:00 AM- 2:00 PM- 1 bus
2:00 PM- 6:00 PM- 2 buses
6:00 PM- 7:30 PM- 1 bus
Saturday (no change) 9:00 AM- 6:00 PM- 1 bus
Sunday (no change) 9:00 AM- 6:00 PM- 1 bus
RTD staff thanked the Longmont staff and Chair Kemp for their assistance in
obtaining this agreement.


Parker Call-n-ride-- Bruce Abel advised the Board that Douglas County has committed to
RTD to provide appropriate funding to enter into a cost sharing agreement with RTD to
allow for the continued operation of the Parker call-n-Ride service. The Parker call-nRide will continue to operate its current schedule (Monday through Friday 5:30 AM6:00 PM) Staff thanked Director O’Boyle and Douglas County Commissioner Jack
Hilbert for their assistance.



Bruce Abel advised the BOD that there was one additional change being recommended
that does not appear in the Board paper. That recommendation is for the BOD to
authorize staff to negotiate with Ride Provide (an Arvada based private non-profit
organization that we currently partner with to provide A-Line service between Arvada
and DIA) to provide service on the route CC to provide 2 trips during the AM peak hour
and 2 trips during the PM peak hour with the goal of approaching Jefferson County (or
some other funding entity such as a metro district) for funding to enter into a cost share

agreement with RTD. RTD would hope to arrange a cost share agreement by the August
run board with the expectation that such cost share agreement will be developed with
Jefferson County or some other funding entity by the January 2010 run board if the
service is to continue beyond that date.
Staff thanked Director Pulliam for his involvement in this deal.
Chair Kemp then opened the meeting up for public participation and asked for
representatives of the various route groups to please speak and to hold the time to three
minutes.
Pam Beckhorn, President of US 285 Coalition, spoke about the proposed route U change.
She reviewed the efforts that the coalition has taken to increase ridership and their desire
to continue the partnership with RTD on looking for solutions for that district. She also
expressed her concerns over safety issues for that corridor and petitioned RTD to not
discontinue Route U.
Joann Harris, Pine Junction, shared the desire for joint partnership and presented several
options for Route U in lieu of total elimination for that route. A copy of her proposed
options is included in the Board meeting minute’s notebook located in the Board office.
John Tigue, Park County Commissioner, shared his objections to the elimination of Route U
and on the new parking management policy. He stated that approximately 80% of the people
who live in Bailey work outside of the area and spend money in the RTD district. He also
reviewed the Park County infrastructure revenues and stated Park County pays RTD services
through its infrastructure. He shared there are a number of things being looked at including
grants and petitioned RTD to not eliminate the services to that district.
Chair Kemp responded RTD is working aggressively to balance the budget and provide
alternative modes of transportation for our constituents. RTD is focused on mobility and
appreciates the efforts of our constituents to come up with alternatives.
Director Daly commented that as representative of the Route U district, he is fully committed
to coming up with viable alternatives.
Michael Moore, Glendale, is an access-a-ride user who indicated he is still having issues with
scheduling. He shared an experience of going in circles the opposite direction just to get to his
home (i.e. issue with circuitous routing).
Jack McCroskey, former RTD Board Member, wanted to speak on the issues of transparency
and what he perceived to be the gap between the promise for rail made to the voters and the
capacity to fill the gap. He thanked Chair Kemp for acknowledging him and shared how he
was instrumental in the approval for light rail (corrected 3/18). He shared three areas where he
felt transparency could be better handled (1) use of language (2) debt and taxes and (3)
bonuses. He used the General Manager’s contract as an example.
Chair Kemp noted for the public that the General Manager has agreed to a salary and bonus
freeze in 2009.
Gary Ulberg, Dispatcher, challenged the reports that say there is a drop in complaints. He
questions the way data is collected and stated people are giving up on filing complaints since
they are not getting callbacks. He feels it is best to just admit there is a problem so we can
work on corrective action.

Former Director Dave Rose spoke about the services in Brighton. He reflected on the progress
and reviewed the growth of Brighton to now be the second fastest growth in the nation and
stated now is not the time to reduce services. He also spoke on behalf of the employees at
DIA who are solely dependent on the 145X and requested consideration. He requested that
the service motion is amended to remove the 145X altogether and give the Adams County and
Brighton County a message of support.
Jim Landelic, representing the City of Brighton, spoke to the marketing of routes in Brighton,
and the use of Cable Channel 8 to get the word out and deferred to Councilman Gill to speak
on the financial implications.
Councilman David Gill, Brighton, raised the issues of the financial impacts of how much of
Brighton’s revenue goes to the district and suggested that of the approximate $4M going the
district, they are receiving less than $2M in benefits. He provided an example of how little
service Brighton receives throughout the day and reiterated that Brighton is a growing
community.
Lauren Haynton representing the I-25 Urban corridor expressed concern for the impact of
cutting the U route on riders into the Tech Center. She shared that in a previous meeting with
G riders many of them stated they would no longer ride mass transit if this line was cut out.
She indicated that RTD may need to look at the bigger picture of losing ridership with these
reductions.
Mike Ward, access-a-ride driver stated “we’re back.” He indicated that while the systems
notes and fixed fares have been worked out, there is a greater systemic problem for access-aride. Clients simply are on the bus an excessive amount of time and this has not improved
since last month. He stated he has been invited to sit on the Steering Committee by Larry
Buter and hopes this is a positive step. The meeting is scheduled for 2/18/09.
Laura Wynche spoke to the cancellation of the Route 125 and stated this will create extreme
hardship on the disabled and families of the disabled. The suggested alternative of bus 20
does not run on weekends. She requested that RTD look at reduced runs rather than total
discontinuance of the service.
Nick Woerum, City of Longmont, spoke in favor of continuing the call-in-ride service for the
citizens of Longmont. They are looking for options that would allow them to coordinate the
efficiencies of all services for the residents.
Phil Greenwald, City of Longmont, expressed the desire to keep the service and the efforts of
everyone involved to come up with a cost sharing option. He thanked Bruce Abel, Pat Heye,
and Brian Matthews for facilitating a solution.
Nicolas Patrick, Denver, related another incident about two weeks ago where while he was at
the Proof Nightclub, his driver arrived earlier than scheduled. After some brief discussion he
let the driver go, thinking there would be a later service. It was not and he once again had to
wait until about 3:00 a.m. His concern is not so much for himself but for other access-a-ride
users who may be more vulnerable or do not function as well as he does. He also stated he
had not heard from Cal Marsella from his last Board appearance (January, 2009).
Terry Westerman stated she has been an access-a-ride user for over 30 years. RouteMatch is
the worst she has seen. The reason why access-a-ride complaints are down is because they
have to now call the 303-299-6000 number, leave a message and expect a callback. They
seldom receive callbacks. She also expressed frustration with what she labeled “city tour”
when trying to get from Point A to Point B.
Priscilla Jones, a blind access-a-ride user, shared an incident on January 2 where the ride was

more than 1 hour late showing up. She refused to pay for the ride and the dispatch refused to
transport her. She wants to know the RTD policy on why clients should be penalized when it
is no fault of their own and the driver is late? What is RTD’s mission statement and policy
protecting clients who ride without getting penalized?
Jack Hilbert, Douglas County Commissioner, stated that Douglas County had passed a
resolution opposing the cuts. Nevertheless, they are working with RTD, Board Members
Bagley, O’Boyle and Chair Kemp to come up with a solution. They are hoping to get this cost
sharing arrangement moving as soon as possible.
Julio Trujillo, Denver, represented the Westside Community for the #1 bus which is ridden
primarily by heavy transit dependents and students. He challenged RTD to more forward
thinking about how to meet the transit needs of the communities.
Pat Mauro, Bailey, spoke to the elimination of the U Route and stated this was a 50 mile route.
He already takes a connection to the light rail and adding another connection would not work.
The vanpool options would require more vans and the Auraria Campus option does not work.
He encouraged RTD to fully check out these alternatives that are being proposed for route U.
Dorothy Hicks and Dianne Johnson spoke on behalf of the Route 2 which they use for access
to their church at 9th and Grant. They stated that if the Route 2 goes away, they have no
options since the proposed alternative would require them to climb a hill, of which neither of
them are physically capable to do. They recommended truncating the route at a different point
but retaining the Route 2.
Gary Zilik, Jefferson County, requested changes could be made to route U but we need to
retain the route. He would like for RTD to consider other alternatives than the one that sends
them through the scenic route down the mountain.
VII.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no committee reports.

VIII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp did not have an update but expects to have one after the meeting on Thursday,
2/19/09.

IX.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF January 20, 2009 AND SPECIAL
BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 3, 2009

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the January 20, 2009
regular board meeting minutes and the February 3, 2009 special
board meeting minutes
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Chacon was absent, Director McMullen had
left early and Director Brohl had stepped away.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
a. West Corridor Elected Officials Meeting

Cal Marsella participated in a West Corridor Elected Officials meeting that was chaired
by Director Cohen and included Directors Pulliam and Former Director Ruchman.
There was a good exchange of information.

b. Meeting with Congressman Polis and Andy Schultheiss
Chair Kemp and Cal Marsella met with Congressman Polis and Andy Schultheiss to
provide them with an orientation of FasTracks and the Northwest Corridor issues. Cal
will do followup on some of their questions and concerns.

XI.

c.

Meeting with Representative of the Southeast Business Partnership
Chair Kemp and Cal Marsella and met with Steve Klausen regarding the G line. He
reassured him that the G line will be resurrected as the Southeast Corridor gets built
out.

d.

APTA Transit IT Conference in Toronto
Cal Marsella shared that Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager, had been invited
to Toronto to share information on the successful implementation of the ERP system.
Phil’s expenses were paid for by APTA.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda items B through V.
Director O’Boyle seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Chacon was absent and
Director McMullen had left early.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

RTD Annexations of Land Recently Annexed By Local Municipalities and Revised RTD
Boundary Map and Description
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised boundary map of the District and authorize the Board
Secretary to certify the boundary map and description and that lands newly annexed to
RTD pursuant to the provisions of CRS 32-9-106 be designated as part of Director
Districts F, G, H, I, and K, as appropriate.

C.

Construction Contract Award US-36 & 116th Ave. Bus Transit Facility/Broomfield
Events Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a construction contract to Jalisco International, Inc. in the amount
of $8,380,637.45 for the US-36 & 116th Ave. Bus Transit Facility in Broomfield at the
Broomfield Events Center. Funding for this contract is included in the 2009 Adopted
Budget for the FasTracks Program.

D.

Intergovernmental Agreement with the Downtown Denver Business Improvement
District (DDBID) for the 16th Street Mall Paver Rehabilitation Plan – Phase I
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and execute an Intergovernmental

Agreement (IGA) with the Downtown Denver Business Improvement District (DDBID)
up to and not-to-exceed $100,000 for the 16th Street Mall Paver Rehabilitation Program
– Phase I. Funding for this project is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget.

E.

Permanent Easement and License for Construction to Denargo Market, L. P. for
Drainage Near District Shops at Approximately 3100 31 st Street, Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to convey
a permanent easement containing 4,826 square feet (0.110 acres) and a license for
construction containing 12,048 square feet (0.276 acres) to Denargo Market, L. P. for
the construction, operation and maintenance of a storm water line and storm water
outfall to be placed upon RTD property bordering the South Platte River and located at
approximately 3100 31st Street, Denver, Colorado.

F.

Recommendation for Approval of the Fourth Year (2009) Contract Award with AECOM
Consult for FasTracks Travel Modeling, Transit Operations, and Rail Simulation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fourth year contract award to
AECOM Consult for FasTracks travel modeling, transit operations analysis, and rail
simulation modeling. The contract is for one year with two one-year renewable options
at RTD’s sole discretion. The contract will be for the not-to-exceed amount of
$600,000, and will be awarded on a work order basis. Partial funding for the contract
is contained in the 2009 RTD expense budget the FasTracks and capital budgets.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $85,000
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the FasTracks modeling expense budget to
provide the remaining funding for this contract in 2009

G.

Recommendation for Contract Award to LS Gallegos for the FasTracks
Independent Cost Assessment Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to LS Gallegos to
perform an Independent Cost Assessment for the FasTracks program. The
contract award will not exceed $360,000. Funding of $300,000 is included in
the 2009 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks program.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of
$60,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to fully fund the cost of this
contract. This action will accelerate future year funding for project administrative
expenditures to cover the full cost of the Independent Cost Assessment.

H.

Recommendation for Loan from RTD to Denver Union Station Project Authority
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that RTD enter into an
agreement to loan the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) $1.5 million
payable in three monthly installments commencing on March 1, 2009 for the purposes
of covering DUSPA operating expenses until such time as DUSPA has funds to cover
project costs and its own operating expenses.

I.

Budget Transfer for Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility Environmental Assessment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a budget transfer in the amount of $700,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) budget for the purpose of
completing the Environmental Assessment (EA). The requested transfer covers
additional alternatives analysis on reconsidered sites, public involvement, and
conceptual design, investigation, environmental analysis, and documentation of the

recommended preferred site.
J.

Recommendation for Grant of Easement and Utility Construction Agreement with
Central Platte Valley Metro District at 18th Street and the Consolidated Main Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that RTD grant an
easement to the Central Platte Valley (CPV) Metro District for construction of a
pedestrian bridge at 18th Street and the Consolidated Main Line (CML) in Denver, and
contract with the CPV Metro District to perform utility relocation that will be required
for Denver Union Station (DUS) in an amount not to exceed $150,000.

K.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
CIBER Inc. an increase in the third-year current contract for IT Technical and
Management Support Services (15DK008). This is an increase in the contract limit
with a not-to-exceed addition of $250,000 to support the automation of FasTracks and
RTD invoice payments using our Enterprise business systems.
This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to CIBER Inc. through the competitive bid
process to support the Transit Information Exchange System (TIES) and other
technology initiatives, such as Enterprise Content Management. CIBER was one of
three firms selected out of approximately fifteen in an open-competition in 2006 and
provides a wide variety of technology professional resources for project specificdelivery. The work order contract has a specified 15% SBE/DBE participation. CIBER
has met this goal using sub-contractors American Automation, RTL Networks, and
Allegory.

L.

First Amendment to Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement – RTD Commercial Paper
Notes, Series 2001
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board approve
the attached First Amendment (the “Amendment”) to Issuing and Paying Agent
Agreement (the “Agreement”) between U.S. Bank Trust National Association (the
“Issuing and Paying Agent”) and the Regional Transportation District.

M.

2009 Fiscal Policy Statement Revision
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors update and modify the Fiscal Policy Statements, Budget Policies – Item 11,
regarding the District’s requirement to prepare a balanced budget.

N.

U.S. Leveraged Lease Modifications and Funds Transfer Request
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the General Manager
be authorized to enter into revisions to the Participation Agreements and to transfer
$591,000 from the General Counsel’s Workers Compensation budget to the
Administration Debt Management budget to fund a 2008 accrual related to the revision
of the 1997-A, (dated July 1, 1997) and 1997-B (dated December 12, 1997) U.S.
Leveraged Lease agreements between the Regional Transportation District (Lessee) and
EntreCap Financial LLC (Lessor) required as a result of downgrades in the credit ratings
of Ambac and AIG. The total 2008 accrual based on current estimates for this
obligation will be $691,000. It is further recommended that the General Manager and
the Manager of Debt and Investments be authorized to execute such documents,
transfers and security agreements as may be necessary to effectuate the revisions to
these transactions which are necessary to avoid an Event of Default as defined in
transaction documents.

It is further recommended that RTD be authorized to pay EntreCap Financial LLC
(Lessor) fees and legal expenses related to the lease revisions in an amount not to
exceed $500,000, RTD consulting fees with Matrix International not to exceed
$100,000 and related RTD legal fees with the firm of Pepper Hamilton in an amount
not to exceed $200,000.
O.

Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents that may be necessary to extend the contract for sale and development by
and between the Regional Transportation District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350
South Santa Fe through June 30, 2009.

P.

Award of “Group 20” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of “Group 20” contracted fixed-route transit services with First Transit, Inc.
This contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed $62,271,383 with two (2)
one-year options in the amount of $22,350,156 (option year 1) and $23,135,466
(option year 2), for a total five year amount not to exceed $107,757,005. In addition,
RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
approximately $15,453,432 for the initial three year contract term and $26,531,908
for the five year period. This results in a contract amount not to exceed $77,724,815
for the initial three year contract period and $134,288,913 for the five year period.
This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in
response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 18-DH-020 to provide “Group 20” Public
Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be
effective with implementation of Group 20 service effective August 23, 2009.

Q.

Cost Sharing Agreements- FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the
Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA
Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and
Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2009 and for amounts not
to exceed $316,050 for Boulder County, $130,053 for Adams County and $96,379
for Jefferson County.

R.

Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and
adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and is
for an amount not to exceed $1,339,351.

S.

Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Englewood/Art shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the Art shuttle circulator bus service
in the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and is for an
amount not to exceed $297,939.

XII.

T.

Colfax Transit Enhancement Project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into Agreements with the Colorado Department of Transportation
(CDOT) and the City and County of Denver (CCD) to implement the Colfax Transit
Enhancement Project and to transfer $3,562,200 from the Transit Development
Reserve fund to implement this project pending reimbursement to RTD from the CDOT
SB-1 grant program.

U.

Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year
2009 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $565,000.

V.

Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the NFR VANGO vanpool program
in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and shall be
in an amount not to exceed $450,000.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
W.
RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2009, Regarding the Regional Transportation
District Paying for Transit Related Group Events

MOTION:

Director Busck moved to approve
the resolution regarding the
Regional Transportation District
paying for transit related group
events.
Director Pulliam seconded the
motion.

DISCUSSION:

Chair
Kemp
indicated
this
resolution was about transparency
and authorizing Board members to
pay for their spouse/guest meals
when attending transit related
events instead of the initial
requirement to have 2 other Board
members present. There is no
increase in spending and each
Board member must manage his
local expense budget accordingly.
Director Busck stated he was the
author for this change and felt it
was appropriate to make this

change.
Director
Martinez
concurred that this made sense and
would actually result in tightening
of expenses and more careful
selection of which events to
attend.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was
taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against.
Director Chacon was
absent and Director McMullen had
left early.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

X.

Requested Name Change for “Convention Center/Performing Arts” LRT Station
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the change of name from RTD’s current “Convention Center*Performing Arts” LRT
station to “Theatre District/Convention Center” LRT station as requested by the
City/County of Denver and further authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City/County of
Denver for Denver to provide funding for the out-of-pocket costs associated with
implementing the requested name change.
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to
approve the requested name
change
for
the
Convention
Center/Performing
Arts
LRT
station.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Busck stated he is in favor
of moving this motion forward as it
relates only to directional change
and as long as they understood
that RTD reserves the right to
implement a station naming policy
that could later affect this station.
Several other directors stated their
agreement (Daly, O’Boyle, Pulliam)

An electronic roll call vote was
taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against.
Director Chacon was
absent and Director McMullen had
left early.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

Y.

Approval of May 3, 2009 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 3, 2009 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$6,806,860, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion
to approve May 3, 2009 service
changes subject to the changes
previously outlined by Bruce Abel
during public participation and per
Cal Marsella’s request for latitude
to review the Route U options and
make changes as needed provided
they did not impact on the dollar
amount.
Director Bagley seconded the
Motion.

Chair Kemp requested Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of
Services to summarize the changes that are now part of this
recommendation. Bruce Abel provided the following information:
Bruce Abel reviewed the changes to the initial staff recommendations presented to the
Board. These changes were reflected in the Board paper in the section titled “Summary
of Public Hearing and Revisions to Initial Proposals.” These items remain as discussed
at Operations and Customer Services committee last week with the following change:
Regarding item number 6 under the section titled “Summary of Public Hearing and
Revisions to Initial Proposals,” of the Board paper, staff advised the BOD that the City
of Longmont and Special Transit Services of Boulder County have committed to RTD to
provide appropriate funding to enter into a cost sharing agreement with RTD to allow
for the continued operation of the Longmont call-n-Ride service although at a reduced
level of service from that currently provided. Staff thanked Longmont staff and Director
Kemp for the assistance. The parties have agreed to the following level of service for
the Longmont call-n-Ride:
Monday-Friday:
6:30 AM- 11:00 AM2 buses
11:00 AM- 2:00 PM1 bus
2:00 PM- 6:00 PM2 buses
6:00 PM- 7:30 PM1 bus
Saturday (no change) 9:00 AM- 6:00 PM1 bus
Sunday (no change)
9:00 AM- 6:00 PM1 bus
This recommendation will reduce the proposed savings by approximately $130,000 per
year or will reduce the 2009 projected savings by $90,000 from that reflected in the
Board paper;
Regarding item number 7, Bruce advised the BOD that Doulas County has committed to
RTD to provide appropriate funding to enter into a cost sharing agreement with RTD to
allow for the continued operation of the Parker call-n-Ride service. Staff thanked
Director O’Boyle and Douglas Count y Commissioner Jack Hilbert for their assistance.
The Parker call-n-Ride will continue to operate its current schedule (Monday through
Friday 5:30 AM- 6:00 PM). This recommendation will reduce the projected savings by
approximately $75,000 per year or will reduce the 2009 projected savings by
approximately $50,000 from that reflected in the Board paper; and
Bruce advised the BOD that there was one additional change being recommended that
does not appear in the Board paper. That recommendation is for the BOD to authorize
staff to negotiate with Ride Provide (an Arvada based private non-profit organization
DISCUSSION:

that we currently partner with to provide A-Line service between Arvada and DIA) to
provide service on the route CC to provide 2 trips during the AM peak hour and 2 trips
during the PM peak hour with the goal of approaching Jefferson County (or some other
funding entity such as a metro district) for funding to enter into a cost share agreement
with RTD. RTD would hope to arrange a cost share agreement by the August run board
with the expectation that such cost share agreement will be developed with Jefferson
County or some other funding entity by the January 2010 run board if the service is to
continue beyond that date. This recommendation will reduce the projected annualized
savings by approximately $80,000 or reduce the estimated 2009 savings by
approximately $50-55,000 in 2009 from that reflected in the Board paper.
The revised annualized savings from the May 2009 service changes would be
approximately$6.5 M. The revised savings for 2009 will be approximately $4.3 M.
Several other comments and concerns were raised by Directors but did not become a
part of this motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was
taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against.
Director Chacon was
absent and Director McMullen had
left early.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Discussion items for followup from this motion include:
 Director Busck wants to see the endangered list for his district within the next
30 days for the August service change.
 Director James wants a list of possible revenue enhancements and cost saving
that may be necessary to balance budget.
 Director Martinez wants to know how do we plan to make up the now $3.5M
shortfall to the $23M gap that we are trying to solve for now?
 Director Christopher wants to see other scenarios we are considering such as
furloughs. The longer we wait, the further our backs are to the wall for
mitigating strategies.
 Director Tayer expressed this is a terrible way to do “our” business emphasizing
our business is to serve the public with transit options that will allow them to
get to work. He wants the Board and staff to look seriously at what point we
are no longer serving our mission as raised by Director Chacon in a previous
meeting. He also wants staff to look at other potential opportunities for
additional revenue (i.e. higher farebox price)
 Directors Brohl and Bagley wants staff to begin looking at this from the
perspective of will the proposed changes cut off access to public transit such as
in the CC and Route U or could the staff lengthen the times on more local and
popular routes such as Route O Broadway that runs frequently.
 Chair Kemp summarized the Board’s sentiment that these are extremely hard
decisions and encouraged staff to look for alternatives such as van pools, etc
that will help keep communities and constituents mobile even as we explore
meeting our budget crunch.
Z.

RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2009, Service Reductions in 2009
MOTION:

Director Daly made the motion to
approve this resolution giving first
priority to those districts most

heavily impacted by the proposed
service cuts when RTD is in a
position to do so again.
Director
motion.

Bagley

seconded

the

Director Tayer stated that while he
liked this resolution in theory, the
full implications have not been
ferreted out and are unclear and
therefore he will vote against it.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was
taken with 12 votes in favor
(Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, James, Kemp,
Martinez, O’Boyle, Pulliam and
Tobiassen) and 1 against (Tayer).

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.
Chair Kemp announced he has appointed an ECO Pass ad hoc committee to provide a
recommendation on what the farebox pass formula will be when implemented.
Committee members include:
Director Tayer, Chair
Director Busck
Director Christopher
Director James
All meetings will be published and recorded.
XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to move
into Executive Session for the purpose to
discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e) labor
contract negotiations- and C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (e) Contract Negotiations DUS.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

XIV.

The motion passed.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 9:37 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, February 17, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District H
District D
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Susan Altes
Jeff Becker
Rick Clarke
Kevin Diviness
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
Dave Genova
Terry Howerter
Nadine Lee
Marla Lien

Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella
Brian Matthews
Robert Merriman
Paula Perdue
Bill Porter
Scott Reed
Scott Roberts
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey

OTHERS PRESENT:
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Priscilla Jones
Pete Tobin
Anne Hayes
Chris Taylor – AV Tech
Jack McCroskey
Robin Kniech – FRESC
BJ Rael
Montell Dyles
Les Townsend
Lauren Hayton
Gary Ulberg – First Transit
Jim Wolf – Veolia
Mark Najarian
Brent Batron
Ryan Osentowski
Craig Lessard
Peter Lorenzen
Miles Tapia
Aareon Hudson Classique LLC

Errol Stevens
Stan Szabelak
Lisa Trujillo
Lee Johnson
Ty Perry
Ken Hardin
Michael Washington
Larry Buter
Carol Conover

Reverend Ray Pouncy
Pam Beckhorn – US 285 Coalition
Joann Harris
John Tigue
Michael Moore
Dave Rose
Jim Landelic – City of Brighton
David Gill – Brighton Councilman
Mike Ward
Laura Wynche
Nick Woerum – City of Longmont
Phil Greenwald – City of Longmont
Nicolas Patrick
Terry Westerman
Jack Hilbert – Douglas County Commissioner
Julio Trujillo
Pat Mauro
Dorothy Hicks
Dianna Johnson
Gary Zilik
Kevin Flynn (The Rocky Mountain News)
Chris Taylor – Spectrum A/V
Ed Colby – URS
Shiona Ward
Nick Patrick
Robert Weinberg
Lee Johnson – First Transit
Don Robinson – Route Match
Tom Coogan – Route Match
Richard Mouriquand
Janice Gaskin
Erika Gaskin
Howard Horton Sr.
Christine Horton
William Gross
Daryl Kinton
Mike Ward
Gary Ulberg – First Transit
Frank Cannon – USNC
Bill Hipp – MV
Mary Hill – access-a-Ride
Steve Roberts – Systra
Doug Connor
Rob Andresen – First Transit
Robin Kniech – FRESC
Roger Sherman - CRL
Irma Thomas
Justin Scalzi – Complete Coach Works
Peter Lorenzen
Fred Hansen – JCI
Daisy Burks
John Valerio
Rick McNeal

