1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
April 16, 2015 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m. In attendance were:

II.

Executive Committee Members Present:

Chair Sisk, 1st Vice-Chair Tobiassen,
Secretary Walker, Treasurer Hoy and 2nd
Vice-Chair Menten (via phone)

Other Board members present:

Director Bagley and Director Folska (via
phone)

Others Present:

Interim General Manager Genova; Paula
Perdue

April Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Sisk introduced the April Board meeting agenda. He noted there should not be any
real issues with the action items that had passed the committees unanimously. He noted
for a couple of the recommended action items around station names on the North Metro
Rail Line and also the Boulder Junction, staff has worked with the local jurisdictions and
the recommended changes are coming from these respective jurisdictions.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve
moving the April Board agenda before the full
Board for approval.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Hoy noted he had spoken with Jim of Thornton
who was in agreement with the recommended action.

Chair Sisk noted that Marla Lien, General Counsel, will
be participating in the APTA International site tour with
opportunity to look at transit in three different
countries. This was a program that had been
previously disbanded but resurrected under the APTA
Chair leadership of General Manager Washington.
Chair Sisk noted that relative to the transfer of funds
for the use of the thermal printers, he believes the
questions on the COP have been addressed. His
understanding is that payment is already made. In
other words, if our obligations on the COP now is $3M,
by the time we use them, we would have already made
payment for the cost of the printers. The net result is
we will not owe more than the initial $3M. The bond
experts have looked at the proposal and are Ok with
this proposal.
On the action item pertaining to the adoption of the
2016 performance measures, Chair Sisk believes staff
can tighten this up a little bit and that we will be good
for the vote. He noted that Director Menten had
indicated she may vote no on this item. Director
Tobiassen commented this is an item related to the
budget and non-acceptance could have impacts on
budget and timelines.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with full agreement by the
Executive Committee.
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent
A. Option to Purchase Real Property at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (“Bus Barn”)
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his designee to negotiate
and execute all documents necessary for the grant of an option, and for the sale,
including execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents for the

purchase of the real property located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (the “Bus Barn
Property”).
B. Budget Transfer Authorization for CAD/AVL-Radio Purchase
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve the
transfer of $483,000 of previously approved capital funds to purchase twenty-on (21)
CAD/AVL - radio kits for expansion buses.

C. Increase General Counsel's Settlement Authority to Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act Claim Limits
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorizes the General Counsel to settle claims made against the District up
to the limits provided in the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (CGIA), C.R.S. 2410-114.


Recommended Action
D. Station Names on North Metro Rail Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
accept and approve the revised final station names for the North Metro Rail Line: 48th
& Brighton Blvd at National Western Center; Commerce City• 72nd; Northglenn•112th;
Original Thornton•88th; Thornton Crossroads•104th; Eastlake•124th; York•144th; and
North Thornton•Hwy 7.
E. Station Naming for Boulder Junction and Boulder Transit Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the proposed station names for the RTD transit facilities
in Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall be
designated as Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be renamed as
Downtown Boulder Station.
F. Authorize to execute a budget transfer to purchase thermal printers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget
transfer in an amount up to $1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project in order to
purchase and install the equipment necessary to accommodate the sale of fare media
under the proposed fare structure.

G. Authorization to execute a lease amendment for Smart Card and / or thermal
printers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing
the First Amendment to the Lease Purchase Agreement related to the Certificates of
Participation, Series 2013A.
H. Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopts the attached 2016 Performance Measures for mission
statement goals 1-7. There are 23 specific performance measures in total.
III.

Update from GM Executive Search Committee
Chair Sisk shared the GM Executive Search committee had met on April 14, 2015. He
noted that three people in the meeting were also members of that committee. He shared
that Roger Sherman, CRL, provided ideas for the comprehensive communications and
outreach plan and the committee had a good dialog on approach and how to best reach
our employees and stakeholders. He noted that the Committee members agreed that
having meetings in their respective districts is not effective in reaching the constituents.
Several other ways for input gathering and sharing of information was discussed including
online surveys and use of social media. He indicated they will be working on a possible
moderated focus group of 10-12 strategic leaders in various capacities to share thoughts
about the General Manager position. Ultimately, the full Board will be making the
decisions on the selection of the General Manager but the discussion centered on what is
the most effective and timely way to garnish input. As noted by Director Bagley, this
process must be corralled to make sure it is meaningful and timely.
The committee also discussed the merits of generating an RFP for the Executive Search
firm or if this could be accomplished by some other means such as use of in-house or
models similar to the way GM Washington was hired in Los Angeles. They reviewed the
cost component from 2009 of about $40K for the firm and another $30K for travel and
incidental expenses. In the end, the committee agreed that the Executive Search firm is
the way to go. They also reviewed the elements of the RFP that included the schedule
and the scope of work. Paula and Linda Wells, procurement agent, were authorized to
proceed with the finalization of the RFP and submit for a proposal. The bidders list should
include local firms that may also reduce the cost component of the search if selected.
Director Hoy requested a step x step, the next 10 steps of the process. The committee
indicated they are building the schedule which can be shared when ready. Paula Perdue
also indicated that it may be possible to provide a checklist of activities, albeit may be
more than 10 steps.

IV.

Follow-up on Video Recording for Board Chambers
Chair Sisk asked Director Bagley to provide an overview of the discussion on video
recording for Board Chambers. The Interim General Manager has not been privy to some
of the discussion. Director Bagley explained that the request had been brought up at the
Executive Committee a few months ago. He believes the value of this will be to enhance
the transparency and openness of the Board meetings. His request includes all Board,
committee meetings and committee meetings held in the 3rd floor conference room as well
as the Board Chambers.
Dave Genova inquired if the idea was for video streaming or archival/store and retention.
He indicated that his team will need to look at both options as obviously one would be
more difficult to implement than the other. The easier will be to implement broadcast or
streaming video. Director Bagley responded that his vision was for archival capability such
as via web portal access. Director Tobiassen suggested staff gets with IT to see what
they suggest. The technology is advanced on this and it does not have to be difficult.
The use of YouTube as an example would work well and could be cost effective. Director
Bagley added that he is not envisioning some fixed type installation but that he would like
it professionally done. If using a wide-lens camera or a Wi-Fi camera will do the trick, he is
OK with this. Chair Sisk added he is more interested in the audio capability of the
recording and cited an example from his previous experience. He suggested we take
progressive steps with the committee and board meetings.
Director Hoy suggested this needs to be done in steps:
 Start with one camera (no edit required)
 Store on You-Tube and look to expand later
 We need a budget to see how much this will cost but make this a simple
application.
Director Folska added we need a professional job. She requested a cost estimate +-10%
along with an estimate of man-hours to handle.
The question was raised as to if this action item needs to be brought before the full Board
or if the Executive Committee could make this recommendation. Director Folska
expressed that since this will affect the full Board, she thought it was appropriate for the
full Board to vote. The Committee generally agreed that this will be a full Board action.
Paula reiterated the approach that she had heard. The first step is for Interim General
Manager Genova to bring a proposal before the Executive Committee in May that has
budget and cost estimates (including listing the sources of funds). The Executive
Committee will make a recommendation to take this action item before the full Board. The
full Board will vote on the proposal. This will require a Board action report from staff for
the full Board.

Director Menten expressed that she has been in a listening mode and supports the
proposal; however, she is fine with doing this on a shoestring. She indicated that one of
the suggestions made by her was to use college students to reduce costs so she expects
this option to be part of the consideration.
V.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

VI.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 12:50 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

