Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
April 16, 2015 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order

II.

April Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Update from GM Executive Search Committee

IV.

Follow-up on Video Recording for Board Chambers

V.

Other Matters

VI.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - April 21, 2015
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Rosalie L. Hankus – Executive Assistant to the General Manager and CEO – 39
years
Debbie Mills – Customer Service Division Representative – 24 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska

FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen
VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 24, 2015

X.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of April 9, 2015

XI.

Chair's Report

XII.

General Manager's Report

XIII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Option to Purchase Real Property at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (“Bus Barn”)

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his designee to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary for the grant of an option, and for
the sale, including execution of any deeds and other property conveyance
documents for the purchase of the real property located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive
(the “Bus Barn Property”).
B.

Budget Transfer Authorization for CAD/AVL-Radio Purchase

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve
the transfer of $483,000 of previously approved capital funds to purchase twentyon (21) CAD/AVL - radio kits for expansion buses.
C.
Increase General Counsel's Settlement Authority to Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act Claim Limits
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorizes the General Counsel to settle claims made against the

District up to the limits provided in the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act
(CGIA), C.R.S. 24-10-114.
XIV.

Recommended Action
D.

Station Names on North Metro Rail Line

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the revised final station names for the North Metro
Rail Line: 48th & Brighton Blvd at National Western Center; Commerce City• 72nd;
Northglenn•112th;
Original
Thornton•88th;
Thornton
Crossroads•104th;
Eastlake•124th; York•144th; and North Thornton•Hwy 7.
E.

Station Naming for Boulder Junction and Boulder Transit Center

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and approve the proposed station names for the RTD transit
facilities in Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall be
designated as Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be renamed as
Downtown Boulder Station.
F.

Authorization to Execute a Budget Transfer to Purchase Thermal Printers

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a
budget transfer in an amount up to $1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project in
order to purchase and install the equipment necessary to accommodate the sale of
fare media under the proposed fare structure.
G.
Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and /or
Thermal Printers
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the First Amendment to the Lease Purchase Agreement related to the
Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A.
H.

Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopts the attached 2016 Performance Measures for mission
statement goals 1-7. There are 23 specific performance measures in total.

XV.

Executive Session

XVI.

Old Business

XVII. New Business
XVIII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.13.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

April 2, 2015

Subject:

Option to Purchase Real Property at 350 S.
Santa Fe Drive (“Bus Barn”)

Assistant

Date: April 2, 2015
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary for the grant of an option, and for the sale, including execution of any deeds and other
property conveyance documents for the purchase of the real property located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive
(the “Bus Barn Property”).
BACKGROUND
This action addresses the 2015 goal of fiscal sustainability in leveraging RTD assets. The Property
originally housed a large bus maintenance facility (hence “Bus Barn”) that was used by RTD until District
Shops opened in the late 1980’s. The building was demolished by RTD in the 1990’s and the Property is
currently vacant. An aerial showing the Property is attached as Exhibit A. RTD has no current or future
transit use for the Bus Barn Property.
In August 2014, RTD received an unsolicited development proposal from D4 Urban, LLC (“D4”) for the
development of the Bus Barn Property. RTD staff determined that the proposal had technical merit, and
in October 2014 received direction from the Board of Directors to issue a solicitation for an RFP for
development proposals for the Bus Barn Property.
RTD staff issued RFP 14DH068 on November 12, 2014 and received one response from D4, and one
letter of interest from the Colorado Department of Transportation.
RTD Staff, a City and County of Denver (“City”) designee, and a Denver Urban Renewal Authority
(“DURA”) designee reviewed D4’s response and determined that the proposal was nonresponsive based
on the criteria given in the RFP. RTD staff met with the Board of Directors in Executive Session on
March 3, 2015, and received direction to move forward with negotiations with D4 for the sale of the
Bus Barn Property under terms different than that proposed by D4.
DISCUSSION
This action would give the General Manager and CEO authority to grant D4 an option to purchase the
Bus Barn Property. The terms of the option would be as follows:


The option would expire on December 31, 2017, meaning D4 could exercise the option and
purchase the Bus Barn Property at any time prior to December 31, 2017.



RTD could not enter into any agreement that would give another party the right to purchase or
lease any portion of the Bus Barn Property during the option term, and cannot offer the property
for sale during that time frame.



The purchase price for the Property will be established when the option is exercised, and would be
the fair market value of the Bus Barn Property based upon an appraisal.

Packet Pg. 5

2.13.A



D4 will pay RTD $10,000 in consideration of RTD’s granting the option.



There would be no preconditions to closing other than delivery of the purchase price (which will be
established when the option is exercised).



Once the option is granted, no subsequent Board action is required during the option term.

The Bus Barn Property is currently accessible predominantly by car from South Santa Fe Drive. The
ultimate development use will be determined by whether the Bus Barn Property remains accessible only
by car, or can be connected directly to Alameda Station via a pedestrian bridge. Construction of a direct
pedestrian bridge connection will require (i) securing approvals from Union Pacific (UP) and Burlington
Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) railroads, RTD and the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) to cross the existing
Consolidated Main Line freight rail and RTD light rail tracks, and (ii) securing sufficient financing, likely
from public financing sources, to construct, own and maintain the bridge.
By granting D4 an option, RTD is allowing the development proposer time to determine if they can
negotiate and secure the necessary approvals and financing to build a pedestrian bridge from third
parties, including UP, BNSF, and the PUC which must approve the rail crossing, as well as from the City
which will likely own the bridge, and DURA which will determine if public financing would be available
for its construction.
Ultimately however, the decision whether or not to build a bridge is up to D4. D4 may elect during the
Option period to move forward with a re-development of the Property that does not include a bridge,
subject to securing necessary City site plan approvals. If D4 does elect to build the bridge, then D4 (not
RTD) will have to obtain the necessary approvals and financing, but such requirements for the bridge will
not be preconditions to D4 exercising the option or to closing on the Bus Barn Property.
At any time during the Option period, D4 may give notice to RTD of its intent to exercise the Option, at
which point the Parties will negotiate a purchase price based on a fair market value appraisal of the
Property at that time. D4 could also elect to terminate its Option, or could fail to exercise it within the
Option period. If D4 terminates or fails to exercise the Option during the Option period, any subsequent
decisions about the Property, including an extension of the Option period would come back to the Board
for approval.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
If the Option is exercised, RTD will receive the amount determined by a fair market value appraisal of the
property.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager and CEO and/or his
designee to negotiate and execute all documents necessary for the grant of an option, and for the
sale, including execution of any deeds and other property conveyance documents for the
purchase of the real property located at 350 S. Santa Fe Drive (the “Bus Barn Property”).
2. Do not authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary for the conveyance of the option. RTD does not have any current or future transit need
for the Bus Barn Property. The Option allows the development proposer to determine if a transit
supportive use is viable, and if exercised, RTD will receive the fair market value of the property as
determined by appraisal. A subsequent RFP is unlikely to be successful, and an Option
agreement is the best structure to allow the development proposer to secure approvals needed
from third parties.

Packet Pg. 6

2.13.A
ATTACHMENTS:


040715_BoardReport_Exhibit A_aerial



040715_BoardReport_Exhibit B_ALTAsurvey

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, TOD & Planning Coordination
Kate Iverson, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 040715_BoardReport_Exhibit A_aerial (2305 : "Bus Barn" Real Property

2.13.A.a

“Bus Barn” Property Aerial

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 040715_BoardReport_Exhibit B_ALTAsurvey (2305 : "Bus Barn" Real Property Purchase)

2.13.A.b

Packet Pg. 9

2.13.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: April 9, 2015

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

April 9, 2015

Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

Subject:

Budget Transfer Authorization for CAD/AVLRadio Purchase

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve the transfer of $483,000 of previously
approved capital funds to purchase twenty-on (21) CAD/AVL - radio kits for expansion buses.
BACKGROUND
In support of the Board adopted strategic goal of Innovative and Fiscally Sustainable Service Delivery,
including Asset Management/State of Good Repair, Bus Operations has begun the process of replacing
aging 2000 Orion forty foot heavy duty transit fleet.
We recently determined that the District needs thirty (30) more forty foot heavy duty transit buses than
we had planned for. The additional vehicles are needed due to changes in schedules and routes that
have resulted in a shortage in this type of vehicle. This shortage has put a strain on service delivery due
to a reduced spare ratio and it has also limited our ability to properly maintain our fleet.
As a stopgap measure we have opted to retain thirty (30) of the Orion’s until replacements are acquired.
This creates the need for twenty-one (21) complete CAD/AVL - radio kits since the original plan was to
retire all of the Orion’s.
We expect to replace these buses in 2016 but since this is an increase in the planned fleet size we have
a need to purchase twenty (21) complete CAD/AVL - radio kits to keep these buses in service. The radio
kits will be transferred to the replacement vehicles when they arrive in 2016.
DISCUSSION
We retired nine buses that were previously used in Longmont. These buses were all equipped with
CAD/AVL radio systems. This reduced the number of radio kits need for the thirty (30) buses being
retained by nine (9) which reduced the required number of radio kits to twenty-one (21). All of our buses
need to be equipped with the CAD/AVL radio system in order for us to keep track of the vehicles and
provide on-time performance data.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total dollars being transferred is $483,000. No additional funds are being requested so there is no
impact on the budget. It is a net zero transfer.
DBE PARTICIPATION
Since this is a financial transaction only DBE requirements do not need to be considered.

Packet Pg. 10

2.13.B

ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to approve this transfer in order to
proceed with the purchase of the radio kits.
2. Do not authorize the transfer. This is not recommended because it will cause a delay in the
District’s ability to increase the number of buses in service which will impact service delivery.

Prepared by:
John Davis, Senior Budget Analyst
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

2.13.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: April 8, 2015

From:

Doug MacLeod, Controller

GM

Date:

April 8, 2015

Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

Subject:

Increase
General
Counsel's
Settlement
Authority to Colorado Governmental Immunity
Act Claim Limits

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Counsel to settle claims made against the District up to the limits provided in the
Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (CGIA), C.R.S. 24-10-114.
BACKGROUND
Until 2013 the General Counsel had authority to settle claims against the District for amounts for which
the District could be liable under the CGIA. Resolution No. 19, Series of 2007 granted the General
Manager authority to approve and execute settlements of claims against the District in an amount not to
exceed $250,000 per claimant.
The General Manager delegated settlement authority to the General
Counsel. CGIA limited liability for tort claims, a category that covers most personal injury claims, to
$150,000 per person. In 2013 the CGIA was amended and individual claim limits were increased to
$350,000, adjusted every four years by the consumer price index for the Denver-Boulder-Greeley area.
The amendment applied to claims which accrued after July 1, 2013 and for which suits could be
brought starting in 2014.
DISCUSSION
RTD presently has 340 open liability claims. Claims are opened and closed on a revolving basis but
eventually all open claims will be subject to the new CGIA limits. RTD is self-insured for most liability
and manages claims with its in-house risk management and legal staffs. The types of liability claims
which can be brought against the District are limited by CGIA and include operation of vehicles, and
under limited circumstances, walkaways and some facilities. In addition, RTD is liable for claims in
contract or arising out of federal and state statutes. Increasing the General Counsel’s authority will
allow these claims to be settled within the claims budget to the level which most routine types of claims
require. Granting this authority is in keeping with how other types of claims are delegated. Claims
arising out of a project for which the General Manager has been granted budgetary authority are not
brought before the Board. RTD legal and claims staff subscribe to publications such as the Jury Verdict
Reporter, try cases in federal and state district courts, and attend alternative dispute resolution meetings
where experienced judges and attorneys discuss the potential value of claims.
Staff is continually
educated regarding potential outcomes should cases go to trial. The alternative to delegation would be
to bring claims before the Board which would be primarily reliant on counsel’s assessment in authorizing
settlement.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact arising from increased settlement authority. Following the change in CGIA
limits RTD began increasing self-insured reserves to account for potential settlements or judgments
under the new statutory limits, has an actuarial study performed each year and has its reserves audited
to ensure they are adequate.

Packet Pg. 12

2.13.C

ALTERNATIVES
1.
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorizes the General Counsel to settle claims made against the District up to the limits provided
in the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (CGIA), C.R.S. 24-10-114.
2.

Do not authorize the General Counsel to settle claims against the District for the limits provided in
the CGIA. The General Counsel’s authority would in that case not exceed $250,000 which has
been delegated by the General Manager to the General Counsel. Claims in excess of that amount
would be brought to the Board for settlement authority.

Prepared by:
Marla Lien, General Counsel
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 13

2.14.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: April 1, 2015

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

April 1, 2015

Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

Subject:

Station Names on North Metro Rail Line

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors accept and
approve the revised final station names for the North Metro Rail Line: 48th & Brighton Blvd at National
Western Center; Commerce City• 72nd; Northglenn•112th; Original Thornton•88th; Thornton
Crossroads•104th; Eastlake•124th; York•144th; and North Thornton•Hwy 7.
BACKGROUND
Station names were originally assigned to locations based on geographic locations during the North
Metro Corridor Environmental Impact Statement (2007 – 2011) and have been used on plans, fact
sheets and the website ever since. During final design, final station names are required for station
signage and related purposes. The following requests were received from the local jurisdictions of
Denver, Commerce City, Northglenn and Thornton.
It is important that station names are recognizable as destinations to RTD patrons. This enables travelers
to easily identify station locations and to efficiently complete trips. Staff recommends station names
that are readily recognizable and make sense for the location while following RTD policy and precedents.
DISCUSSION
The City and County of Denver requested the station at National Western Stock Show be changed to
National Western Center. The City and County of Denver is contributing funds toward the North Metro
Rail Line over and above the required local match. While the National Western Stock Show and National
Western Complex are trademarked names of private entities, the National Western Center is not. In
addition, the intent of the City and County of Denver is to be heavily involved in the “National Western
Center” development in the near future.
Staff Recommendation: Change to 48th & Brighton at National Western Center
This solution fits directly into the current station naming policy of naming stations after cross
streets as well as naming after a publicly recognized location.
The City of Commerce City requested that the 72nd Avenue station be changed it to Commerce CityEast 72nd Avenue.
Staff Recommendation: Change to “Commerce City•72nd”
This solution names Commerce City in the station and includes a cross street in accordance with
the station naming policy. Staff recommends the “East” and the “Avenue” be dropped since no
other stations include a direction or street type designation. It also follows a precedent set at
Littleton•Mineral and Lakewood•Wadsworth stations on other existing lines.

Packet Pg. 14

2.14.D

The City of Northglenn
Northglenn•112th Avenue

requested

that the 112th Avenue station

names be changed

to

Staff Recommendation: Change to “Northglenn•112th”
This solution names Northglenn in the station and includes a cross street in accordance with the
station naming policy. Staff recommends the “Avenue” be dropped since no other stations
include a direction for street type designation. It also follows a precedent set at Littleton•Mineral
and Lakewood•Wadsworth stations on other existing lines where names of cities are added into
station names.
The City of Thornton requested the following station names:
1. Changing “88th” to “Original Thornton at 88th”
This is the first station in Thornton so including the name of the City is appropriate. Using
‘Original Thornton’ gives recognition to the adjoining area where Thornton began.
2. Changing “104th” to “Thornton Crossroads at 104th”
This station is located where two important roads intersect, Colorado Boulevard and 104th
Avenue. Colorado Boulevard runs through the center of Thornton and extends far north into Weld
County and 104th is an important access route to DIA from communities in the northern part of
the metro area.
3. Changing “ 124th-Eastlake” to “Eastlake at 124th”
The Town of Eastlake, now incorporated into Thornton, is a strong historic and geographic
reference point for this station. Eastlake was one of the stops on the original Union Pacific rail
line.
4. Changing “144th” to “York at 144th
York Street and 144th Avenue intersect close to the station and provide a geographic reference
point for this station name.
5. Changing “162nd/Hwy 7” to “North Thornton at Hwy 7”
This station name reflects the fact that the station is located at the northern end of the line and
at the northern boundary of Thornton.
Staff Recommendation: Change to the following – Original Thornton•88th; Thornton
Crossroads•104th; Eastlake•124th; York•144th; and North Thornton•Hwy 7.
Each of the suggestions from the City of Thornton makes sense and fits within the station
naming policy. Staff recommends changing the “at” to a bullet to conform to RTD standards.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact at this time, however decisions need to be made prior to final design
completion so signage and systems set up can be completed with final station names.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the Board of Directors accept and approve the revised final station names for the North
Metro Rail Line: 48th & Brighton Blvd at National Western Center; Commerce City• 72nd;
Northglenn•112th; Original Thornton•88th; Thornton Crossroads•104th; Eastlake•124th;
York•144th; and North Thornton•Hwy 7.
2. Do not accept the recommended action. Instead leave the names as defined in the EIS. This is not
recommended as it would not be responsive to key stakeholders making the request.

Packet Pg. 15

2.14.D

Prepared by:
Brenda Tierney, Public Information Manager, North Metro Rail
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 16

2.14.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

Date:

April 1, 2015

Subject:

Station Naming for Boulder Junction and
Boulder Transit Center

Assistant

Date: April 1, 2015
General

GM
Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors accept
and approve the proposed station names for the RTD transit facilities in Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall be designated as
Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be renamed as Downtown
Boulder Station.
BACKGROUND
Although the U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project does not officially have any infrastructure
improvements west of U.S. 36•Table Mesa Station, the new BRT service starting in January 2016 has
triggered a need to name the Boulder end-of-line stations in advance of the production of public
information and marketing campaigns and collateral materials. In addition, RTD will need adequate lead
time to fabricate and install any replacement signage at these station locations prior to opening day.
RTD has not officially named the new transit facility currently under construction at Boulder Junction at
Depot Square near Junction Place and Pearl Parkway in Boulder. In addition, the City of Boulder has
indicated a desire to rename the Boulder Transit Center.
Boulder Junction
The end-of-line bus facility located at Boulder Junction has yet to be officially named. “Boulder Junction”
is the name of the mixed-use, pedestrian-oriented neighborhood in Boulder (30th and Pearl Street) while
“Depot Square” is the name of the development over RTD’s underground bus facility. The city of Boulder
refers to the development housing the RTD transit facility as “Boulder Junction at Depot Square.”
If RTD follows its typical station-naming convention, the transit facility would be named based on its
geographic location, Junction Place and Pearl Parkway. However, both RTD and the city of Boulder
commonly refer to the location as “Boulder Junction”. The city of Boulder and the Boulder Junction
Access District have officially named the development “Boulder Junction at Depot Square”, and the city
has formally requested that RTD use the full development name for the station.
RTD staff recommends the name requested by the city of Boulder.

Packet Pg. 17

2.14.E

Boulder Transit Center
The Boulder Transit Center located at 14th and Walnut Street has been in place for many years as the
main RTD transit hub in Boulder. With the Boulder Junction Station coming online as another major
transit hub, the city of Boulder wishes to change the name of this facility to further distinguish it from
the station at Boulder Junction. For this reason, the city of Boulder requests that RTD rename the
Boulder Transit Center to “Downtown Boulder Station.” The proposed name will help customers identify
the location of this station within the city of Boulder. RTD staff has no objections to this request and
agrees that such a change, if desired by all parties, should be implemented with the BRT opening.
Staff Recommendation: Boulder Junction—station name determination
Staff recommends the station name to be designated as Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station for
the following reasons:
 Boulder Junction is a known entity in Boulder and it designates where the bus facility is.
 This name is supported by the City of Boulder.
Staff Recommendation: Boulder Transit Center—name change request
Staff recommends the station name be changed to Downtown Boulder Station for the following reasons:



This name is supported by the city of Boulder
It reflects where the station is located within the city of Boulder.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD has already established a project budget in the FasTracks program to place new signage at the
stations for the implementation of the new BRT service. Any changes to the station naming will be
incorporated into this effort. It is expected that all of the recommended changes can be done within the
established budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors accept and approve the proposed station names for the RTD transit
facilities in Boulder as follows:
a) The new transit facility located at Boulder Junction at Depot Square shall be designated as
Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station; and,
b) The current Boulder Transit Center located at 14th/Walnut shall be renamed as Downtown
Boulder Station.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Instead, conduct a more extensive naming exercise to
identify an alternate name for the station at Boulder Junction at Depot Square. This is not
recommended because it is a time consuming task and the public is very likely to refer to it by the
recommended name anyway. For the Boulder Transit Center, not accepting the Recommended Action
would result in leaving the name as it is today, “Boulder Transit Center.” This is not recommended as
the city of Boulder has requested the name of the downtown station to be changed.

Prepared by:
Nadine Lee, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 18

2.14.E

Packet Pg. 19

2.14.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: April 9, 2015

From:

Doug MacLeod, Controller

GM

Date:

April 8, 2015

Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

Subject:

Authorization to Execute a Budget Transfer to
Purchase Thermal Printers

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget transfer in an amount up to
$1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project in order to purchase and install the equipment necessary
to accommodate the sale of fare media under the proposed fare structure.
BACKGROUND
RTD has proposed a modified and simplified fare structure to the Board to be enacted in January 2016.
Under the new fare structure, it is proposed that transfers be eliminated and a day pass be offered to
customers for purchase on board RTD buses. The day pass is proposed to be priced at two times the
single fare and would allow a customer to have unlimited rides during a service day, thereby not
requiring a rider to purchase a fare at each transfer.

DISCUSSION
In order to make the day pass widely available to RTD’s patrons, the ability to purchase day passes is
needed at the location where a patron accesses RTD’s services either on buses or at rail platforms. RTD
currently has the ability to sell day passes at rail platforms through ticket vending machines (TVMs) and
at sales outlets but currently does not have the ability to offer day passes to patrons who purchase their
first fare upon entering a bus. In order to offer a day pass on buses, a thermal printer would be installed
in each bus whereby a customer would pay for the day pass through the farebox and the operator would
produce a day pass from the thermal printer. The day pass will be printed on watermarked paper and
would clearly indicate the service day for which it is valid.
Although the Board has not yet authorized RTD to implement the new fare structure, authority to enter a
contract for the purchase and installation of thermal printers is being sought at this time due to the lead
time necessary to complete this procurement to meet the January 2016 fare structure implementation. If
the final Board action approving changes to RTD’s 2016 fare policy does not include a day pass, thus
negating the need for thermal printers, this funding will not be used.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The estimated cost of installing thermal printers on each of the approximately 1,000 buses in the RTD
fleet is $1,900,000. This cost includes the equipment as well as the connections and installation
necessary to tie the printers into the RTD network.

Packet Pg. 20

2.14.F

The funding necessary for this procurement would come from a portion of the Certificate of Participation
(COP) proceeds that were authorized by the Board to be used for the replacement of Mall Shuttles.
Therefore, there would be no need to seek additional funding for this procurement and no budgetary
impact other than the transfer of funds from one project to another. These funds will be backfilled
through the 2015 amended budget process.

ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget transfer in order to purchase
and install the equipment necessary to accommodate the sale of fare media under the proposed
2016 fare structure. This action grants authority to execute a budget transfer in an amount not
to exceed $1,900,000 from the Mall Shuttle project. This is the recommended action.

2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a budget transfer. This action
would result in RTD’s inability to procure needed day pass fare media equipment in time to
provide the ability for patrons to purchase day passes on buses and avoid multiple fare payments
for transfers. This is not the recommended action.

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 21

2.14.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: April 9, 2015

From:

Doug MacLeod, Controller

GM

Date:

April 8, 2015

Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

Subject:

Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment
for Smart Card and /or Thermal Printers

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the First Amendment to
the Lease Purchase Agreement related to the Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A.
BACKGROUND
In 2013 the District issued Certificates of Participation (COPs) to fund the acquisition of buses and
ticket vending machines. The original plan for use of these funds included the acquisition of new
Mall Shuttle buses. Since 2013, the anticipated Mall Shuttle bus manufacturer has gone bankrupt
and the timeline to replace the Mall Shuttles has been delayed.
Also during this time, staff has identified a need for funding in the amount of approximately
$5,700,000 for the following two projects:
1. Expansion of the Xerox contract related to the smart card project ($3,800,000).
2. Thermal printers to support the proposed new fare structure including the purchase of day
passes on buses ($1,900,000).
This action item discusses the amendment of the Lease Purchase Agreement related to the
Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A and the reallocation of some of the funds originally
planned to be spent on Mall Shuttles.

DISCUSSION
The District’s Bond Counsel, Butler Snow, has provided the attached Resolution which authorizes the
execution and delivery of the attached first amendment to the lease purchase agreement related to
the Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A and would allow the District to fund the smart card
and thermal printer expenses identified above. Since the Board previously approved the funding of
the Xerox project in March but has not yet approved the thermal printers, this amendment to the
lease is structured in such a way that either or both projects can be funded with the existing Mall
Shuttle funds following Board approval.
Although the approximate cost of the two requests above is $5,700,000 the Resolution provides for
funding of up to $6,000,000. This allows for the possibility of future board action approving some
additional related project costs without the need to amend the lease a second time.

Packet Pg. 22

2.14.G

This first amendment to the Lease has been approved by the trustee bank. Bond counsel will provide
the trustee with an opinion that the First Amendment is authorized by the Lease as required by the
Indenture of Trust.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Any 2013 COP Mall Shuttle funds that remain after funding one or both of the two projects above
will be used for bus acquisitions as originally anticipated, possibly even mall shuttles if an appropriate
manufacturer is identified. Any additional funding that may be needed for Mall Shuttles as a result
of this lease amendment is anticipated to be obtained through future COP issuances.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of
2015, authorizing the execution and delivery of a first amendment to the lease purchase
agreement relating to the 2013 lease purchase agreement and authorizing the General
Manager to take action in connection therewith. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series
of 2015, authorizing the execution and delivery of a first amendment to the lease purchase
agreement relating to the 2013 lease purchase agreement and authorizing the General
Manager to take action in connection therewith. This is not the recommended action as it
would not provide the funding previously approved by the Board in March, 2015 for the
expansion of the Xerox contract in relation to the smart card project.
ATTACHMENTS:


First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final)

(DOC)



Resolution - RTD - First Amendment to 2013 Lease (final)

(DOC)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 23

________________________________________________________________________
RTD ASSET ACQUISITION AUTHORITY, INC.,
AS LESSOR
AND
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT,
AS LESSEE
________________________________________________________________________
FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
(With Authorization for Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A, in the Aggregate
Principal Amount of $224,045,000 Evidencing Assignments of Proportionate Interests in Rights
to Receive Certain Payments Hereunder)
________________________________________________________________________
DATED AS OF APRIL __, 2015
This First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement amends and supplements the Lease
Purchase Agreement dated as of May 9, 2013, between RTD Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc.,
as lessor, and Regional Transportation District, as lessee.
The interest of RTD Asset Acquisition Authority, Inc. in this First Amendment to Lease
Purchase Agreement has been assigned to UMB Bank, n.a., Denver, Colorado, as trustee (the
“Trustee”) under the Indenture of Trust dated as of May 9, 2013, between RTD Asset
Acquisition Authority, Inc., and the Trustee and is subject to the security interest of the Trustee.

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and/or

2.14.G.a

FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this “First
Amendment”) dated as of April __, 2015, entered into by and between the RTD ASSET
ACQUISITION AUTHORITY, INC. (the “Corporation”), a nonprofit corporation duly
organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Colorado, as lessor, and the
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (the “District”), as lessee;
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the District is authorized by part 1 of article 9 of title 32, Colorado Revised
Statutes to develop, maintain and operate a mass transportation system and in connection
therewith to purchase or otherwise acquire real and personal property; and
WHEREAS, the Corporation is a nonprofit corporation organized, existing and in good
standing under the laws of the State of Colorado (the “State”), is duly qualified to do business in
the State, and, under its articles and bylaws, is authorized to own and manage its properties, to
conduct its affairs in the State and to act in the manner contemplated herein; and
WHEREAS, the District and the Corporation have previously entered into a Lease
Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 9, 2013 (the “Lease”) pursuant to which the District has
leased from the Corporation certain equipment and vehicles as more specifically set forth in
Exhibit A to the Lease, as it may be amended from time to time (collectively, the “2013A Leased
Property”); and
WHEREAS, capitalized terms used in this First Amendment and not otherwise defined
herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the Corporation has previously entered into a certain Indenture of Trust
dated as of May 9, 2013 (the “Indenture”), with UMB Bank, n.a., Denver, Colorado, as trustee
(the “Trustee”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Indenture, the Corporation has assigned (with certain
exceptions) all of its rights, title and interest in, to and under the Lease to the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Indenture, there were executed and delivered the
“Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A” in the original aggregate principal amount of
$224,045,000, of which $221,335,000 remains outstanding as of the date hereof (the “2013A
Certificates”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds from the sale of the 2013A Certificates are required to be
disbursed by the Trustee, at the direction of the District as agent for the Corporation, to
effectuate the Refunding Project and defray the costs of the 2013 Acquisition Project; and
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, the Refunding Project has been effectuated and a
portion of the 2013 Acquisition Project has been acquired; and

1
Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and/or

2.14.G.a

WHEREAS, certain Ticket Vending Machines have been acquired as part of the 2013
Acquisition Project for an acquisition price of approximately $1,400,000, and comprise a portion
of the 2013A Leased Property; and
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the 2013A
Certificates are on deposit in the Project Fund, which is being held by the Trustee, and will be
disbursed by the Trustee, at the direction of the District as agent for the Corporation, to defray
the remaining Costs of the Project; and
WHEREAS, a portion of the 2013 Acquisition Project consisted of the expected
acquisition of twenty-five (25) mall shuttle buses (the “Mall Shuttle Buses”) at an estimated cost
of approximately $17,800,000; and
WHEREAS, the manufacturer of the Mall Shuttle Buses is no longer in business and it is
not expected that the Mall Shuttle Buses will be acquired as part of the 2013 Acquisition Project;
and
WHEREAS, the District and the Corporation desire to apply a portion of the proceeds of
the 2013A Certificates that were expected to be used to acquire the Mall Shuttle Buses to the
acquisition and installation of certain equipment consisting of thermal printers, equipment related
to the SmartCard project and other necessary fare collection equipment (collectively, the
“Additional Fare Collection Equipment”) in order to more effectively implement a new fare
structure for the District; and
WHEREAS, the District and the Corporation desire to amend the Lease to provide that
moneys on deposit in the Project Fund may be applied to the acquisition and installation of the
Additional Fare Collection Equipment; and
WHEREAS, it is expected that the cost of acquiring and installing the Additional Fare
Collection Equipment will be approximately $6,000,000; and
WHEREAS, the Lease provides that, subsequent to the issuance of the 2013A
Certificates and prior to the discharge of the Indenture, the Lease may not be effectively
amended, changed, modified or altered without the written consent of the Trustee as provided in
the Indenture and other than by the execution of a subsequent document in the same manner as
the Lease is executed; and
WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that the Corporation and the District may, with the
written consent of the Trustee, but without the consent of or notice to the Owners of the 2013A
Certificates, consent to any amendment, change or modification of the Lease for one or more
purposes, including without limitation, to make amendments to the Lease which do not
materially adversely affect the interests of the Owners of the 2013A Certificates; and
WHEREAS, the District and the Corporation have determined that the Lease should be
amended to provide that moneys on deposit in the Project Fund may be applied to the acquisition
and installation of the Additional Fare Collection Equipment and have further determined that

2

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and/or

2.14.G.a

the amendments set forth in this First Amendment do not materially adversely affect the interests
of the Owners of the 2013A Certificates; and
WHEREAS, the Trustee has given its written consent to the execution and delivery of
this First Amendment; and
WHEREAS, the District and the Corporation desire to amend and supplement the Lease
in accordance with the terms and provisions of this First Amendment.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and the
representations, covenants and warranties herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.1
The acquisition and installation of thermal printers, equipment
related to the SmartCard project and other necessary fare collection equipment (collectively, the
“Additional Fare Collection Equipment”) in the maximum principal amount of $6,000,000 shall
constitute a Cost of the Project under the Lease and the Trustee shall be authorized to disburse
moneys on deposit in the Project Fund to pay the costs of acquiring, installing and implementing
the operation of the Additional Fare Collection Equipment.
Section 1.2
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in the
Lease or in the Indenture, the Additional Fare Collection Equipment shall not be included as
2013A Leased Property under the Lease. The District shall retain ownership of the Additional
Fare Collection Equipment and such Additional Fare Collection Equipment shall not be subject
to the terms and provisions of the Lease.
Section 1.3
Exhibit C to the Lease, which sets forth the Release and
Amortization Schedule, shall be amended and restated in whole, in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit C and by this reference made a part hereof. Under the provisions of the Lease, upon the
payment of the principal component of Base Rentals under the Lease in the total cumulative
amount of at least $10,110,000, corresponding components of the 2013A Leased Property are to
be deemed amortized and released from the provisions of the Lease, as further provided in
Section 12.3 of the Lease and Exhibit C to the Lease. Under the terms of the Lease, the payment
of the principal component of Base Rentals in the total cumulative amount of $10,110,000 is
expected to be made on or prior to May 15, 2015. The Additional Fare Collection Equipment is
expected to be acquired with moneys on deposit in the Project Fund subsequent to May 15, 2015,
and therefore the Additional Fare Collection Equipment will not become 2013A Leased Property
under the Lease but will be deemed to be amortized and released for purposes of Exhibit C and
Section 12.3 of the Lease.
Section 1.4
Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained in the
Lease or in the Indenture, (a) the District and the Corporation shall not be required to assign to
the Trustee any rights under any contract relating to the manufacture of the Additional Fare
Collection Equipment; and (b) if directed in writing by the District, the Trustee shall be
authorized to disburse money from the Project Fund to make payments under any contract
relating to the Additional Fare Collection Equipment without such contract being assumable by
the Trustee.
3

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and/or

2.14.G.a

Section 1.5
This First Amendment shall hereafter form a part of the Lease and
all the terms and conditions contained herein shall be deemed to be part of the Lease for any and
all purposes. Except as expressly amended hereby, the Lease shall remain as originally stated
and is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 1.6
This First Amendment may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute but one and the same
instrument.
Section 1.7
This First Amendment shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Colorado.
Section 1.8

This First Amendment shall become effective as of the date first

above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has executed this First Amendment to
Lease Purchase Agreement in its corporate name with its corporate seal hereunto affixed and
attested by its duly authorized officers; and the Chair and Secretary of the Board have executed
this First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement for and on behalf of the District, all as of the
date first above written.
RTD ASSET ACQUISITION
AUTHORITY, INC., as Lessor

By: _______________________________________
President

(SEAL)
ATTEST:

By:
Secretary
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT,
as Lessee

By: _______________________________________
Chair

(SEAL)
ATTEST:

By:
Secretary
4

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and/or

2.14.G.a

UMB Bank, n.a., as Trustee under the Indenture, hereby consents to the execution
and delivery of this First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement.
UMB BANK, N.A., as Trustee
By:
Title:

5

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and/or

2.14.G.a

EXHIBIT C
RELEASE AND AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE
TOTAL AMOUNTS OF BASE
RENTALS PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS
AND OPTIONAL PRIOR
REDEMPTIONS WHICH MUST BE
MADE OR OF CERTIFICATES WHICH
MUST BE PAID OR DEFEASED, TO
(1)
RELEASE

PORTION OF THE 2013A LEASED
PROPERTY TO BE RELEASED(2)

$10,110,000

All Ticket Vending Machines (with a purchase price of
approximately $1,400,000); all Additional Fare
Collection Equipment (with a maximum purchase price
(3)
of $6,000,000) , plus Buses in the Cumulative
Aggregate Amount Valued at no more than $2,509,500

$28,660,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: two light rail
vehicles and Buses in the Cumulative Aggregate
Amount Valued at no more than $13,116,000

$48,080,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: three light rail
vehicles and Buses in the Cumulative Aggregate
Amount Valued at no more than $25,266,000

$65,340,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: two light rail
vehicles and Buses in the Cumulative Aggregate
Amount Valued at no more than $37,966,500

$81,340,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: one light rail
vehicle and Buses in the Cumulative Aggregate Amount
Valued at no more than $50,727,000

$98,085,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: Buses in the
Cumulative Aggregate Amount Valued at no more than
$64,051,500

$115,620,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: one light rail
vehicle and Buses in the Cumulative Aggregate Amount
Valued at no more than $78,006,000

$133,810,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: one light rail
vehicle and Buses in the Cumulative Aggregate Amount
Valued at no more than $92,460,000

6

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and/or

2.14.G.a

$154,300,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: two light rail
vehicles and Buses in the Cumulative Aggregate
Amount Valued at no more than $107,656,500

$175,800,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: two light rail
vehicles and Buses in the Cumulative Aggregate
Amount Valued at no more than $123,613,500

$198,395,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: all remaining
light rail vehicles and Buses in the Cumulative
Aggregate Amount Valued at no more than
$140,385,000

$214,835,000

All Leased Property Set forth above plus: Buses in the
Cumulative Aggregate Amount Valued at no more than
$155,181,000

$224,045,000

All remaining Leased Property

__________________
(1)
Pursuant to Section 12.3 of this Lease, when the principal component of Base Rentals paid by the District,
plus the principal amount of Certificates redeemed through optional redemption, or the total principal amount of
Certificates paid or deemed to be paid, totals the amount set forth in this column, the corresponding portion of the
Leased Property will be deemed amortized and shall be released.
(2)
For purposes of this Release Schedule each bus shall be deemed to have a release value equal to the
purchase price of such bus. In connection with any request to release any buses, the release request shall set forth
the value of each bus based on its original purchase price. The buses acquired prior to 2015 shall be released prior
to releasing any buses acquired on and after 2015.
(3)
The Additional Fare Collection Equipment is expected to be acquired with moneys on deposit in the Project
Fund after the date that the Base Rental Principal Payments will be made in an amount equal to at least $10,110,000,
and therefore the Additional Fare Collection Equipment will not become 2013A Leased Property under the Lease,
but shall be deemed to be amortized and released for purposes of this Exhibit C and Section 12.3 of this Lease.

7

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card and/or

2.14.G.a

RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2015
AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF A
FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
RELATING TO THE 2013 LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENT;
AND AUTHORIZING THE GENERAL MANAGER TO TAKE
ADDITIONAL ACTION IN CONNECTION THEREWITH.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District in the City and County of
Broomfield, the City and County of Denver and the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of Colorado (the “District”) was created by the General
Assembly of the State of Colorado in 1969 by Chapter 231, Laws of Colorado 1969, which is
currently codified as Sections 32-9-101 through 32-9-164, inclusive, of the Colorado Revised
Statutes (the “Act”) and the District’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) and officers from time to
time, including the present incumbents, have been duly chosen and qualified; and
WHEREAS, the District is authorized by the Act to develop, maintain and operate
a mass transportation system and in connection therewith to purchase or otherwise acquire real
and personal property; and
WHEREAS, the District has previously entered into a Lease Purchase Agreement,
dated as of May 9, 2013 (the “Lease”) between the District and RTD Asset Acquisition
Authority, Inc. (the “Corporation”), pursuant to which the District has leased or will lease from
the Corporation certain equipment and vehicles as more specifically set forth in Exhibit A to the
Lease, as it may be amended from time to time (collectively, the “2013A Leased Property”); and
WHEREAS, capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have
the meanings given to them in the Lease; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the leasing of the 2013A Leased Property, the
Corporation entered into a certain Indenture of Trust, dated as of May 9, 2013, between the
Corporation and UMB Bank, n.a., Denver, Colorado, as trustee (the “Trustee”), pursuant to
which there were executed and delivered certain Certificates of Participation, Series 2013A in
the original aggregate principal amount of $224,045,000, of which $221,335,000 remains
outstanding as of the date hereof (the “2013A Certificates”); and
WHEREAS, the proceeds from the sale of the 2013A Certificates are required to
be disbursed by the Trustee, at the direction of the District as agent for the Corporation, to
effectuate the Refunding Project and defray the costs of the 2013 Acquisition Project; and
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, the Refunding Project has been effectuated and
a portion of the 2013 Acquisition Project has been acquired; and
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the
2013A Certificates are on deposit in the Project Fund, which is being held by the Trustee, and
will be disbursed by the Trustee, at the direction of the District as agent for the Corporation, to
defray the remaining Costs of the Project; and

1
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Resolution - RTD - First Amendment to 2013 Lease (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card

2.14.G.b

WHEREAS, a portion of the 2013 Acquisition Project consisted of the expected
acquisition of twenty-five (25) mall shuttle buses (the “Mall Shuttle Buses”) at an estimated cost
of approximately $17,800,000; and
WHEREAS, the manufacturer of the Mall Shuttle Buses is no longer in business
and it is not expected that the Mall Shuttle Buses will be acquired as part of the 2013 Acquisition
Project; and
WHEREAS, the Board hereby finds and determines that it is in the best interests
of the District to apply a portion of the proceeds of the 2013A Certificates that were expected to
be used to acquire the Mall Shuttle Buses to the acquisition and installation of certain equipment
consisting of thermal printers, equipment related to the SmartCard project and other necessary
fare collection equipment (collectively, the “Additional Fare Collection Equipment”) in order to
more effectively implement a new fare structure for the District; and
WHEREAS, it is expected that the cost of acquiring and installing the Additional
Fare Collection Equipment will be approximately $6,000,000; and
WHEREAS, in order to authorize the acquisition and installation of the
Additional Fare Collection Equipment, the Board has determined and hereby determines that it is
necessary, desirable and in the best interest of the District to enter into an amendment of the
Lease in substantially the form of the First Amendment to Lease Purchase Agreement, between
the District and the Corporation (the “First Amendment”) on file with the District; and
WHEREAS, the Trustee has given its written consent to the execution and
delivery of the First Amendment; and
WHEREAS, the District is in the process of acquiring the vehicles and equipment
that comprise a portion of the 2013 Acquisition Project, but the exact number and type of the
vehicles and the equipment to be acquired by the District is still being determined; and
WHEREAS, the Board hereby finds and determines that it is in the best interests
of the District to authorize the General Manager or Acting General Manager of the District to
make all final determinations with respect to the vehicles and equipment that will be acquired
with the proceeds of the 2013A Certificates and that will become 2013A Leased Property under
the Lease; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, happen and
be performed precedent to and in connection with the authorization of the First Amendment
exist, have happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and manner as
required by law, it is appropriate for the Board to adopt this Resolution at this time.

2
Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Resolution - RTD - First Amendment to 2013 Lease (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card

2.14.G.b

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
BROOMFIELD, THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER AND THE COUNTIES OF
ADAMS, ARAPAHOE, BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND WELD, IN THE STATE
OF COLORADO AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.
Ratification and Approval of Prior Actions. All action heretofore
taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this Resolution) by the Board or the officers or
agents of the Board or the District directed toward the execution and delivery of the First
Amendment is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
Section 2.
Finding of Best Interests. The Board hereby finds and determines
that it is necessary, desirable and in the best interest of the District to enter into the First
Amendment. The Board hereby further determines that the amendments set forth in the First
Amendment do not materially adversely affect the interests of the Owners of the 2013A
Certificates.
Section 3.
Approval of First Amendment. The First Amendment, in
substantially the form thereof presented to the Board and filed with the District, is in all respects
approved, authorized and confirmed, but such document may be completed, corrected or revised
as deemed necessary by the parties thereto in order to carry out the purposes of this Resolution
and as the General Manager or Acting General Manager of the District or Chief Financial Officer
shall approve. The Chair of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver
the First Amendment for and on behalf of the District. The Secretary is hereby authorized and
directed to attest the First Amendment and to place the seal of the District on the First
Amendment. The execution of the First Amendment by the appropriate officers of the District
herein authorized shall be conclusive evidence of the approval by the District of the First
Amendment in accordance with the terms hereof.
Section 4.
Authorization to Take Additional Action. The officers of the
District are hereby authorized and directed to take all action which they deem necessary or
reasonably required in conformity with the Act to execute and deliver the First Amendment and
to carry out, give effect to and consummate the transactions contemplated by this Resolution, the
Lease and the First Amendment.
Section 5.
Authorization of General Manager Relating to Lease. Without
specific Board approval, the General Manager or Acting General Manager shall have the
authority to authorize amendments to the Lease relating to (a) the vehicles and equipment that
will be acquired with the proceeds of the 2013A Certificates, (b) the vehicles and equipment that
will comprise the 2013A Leased Property under the Lease, and (c) the amortization and release
schedule set forth in the Lease.
Section 6.
Repealer. All bylaws, orders and resolutions of the District, or
parts thereof, inconsistent with this Resolution or with the document hereby approved are hereby
repealed to the extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed as
reviving any bylaw, order or resolution of the District, or part thereof, heretofore repealed.

3
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Resolution - RTD - First Amendment to 2013 Lease (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card

2.14.G.b

Section 7.
Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, clause or
provision of this Resolution or the document hereby authorized and approved shall for any
reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section,
subsection, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this
Resolution or such document, the intent being that the same are severable.
Section 8.
Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage and adoption.
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this April 21, 2015.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By
Chair, Board of Directors
[SEAL]

Attest:

Secretary, Board of Directors

4
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Resolution - RTD - First Amendment to 2013 Lease (final) (2325 : Authorization to Execute a Lease Amendment for Smart Card

2.14.G.b

2.14.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: April 8, 2015

From:

Doug MacLeod, Controller

GM

Date:

April 8, 2015

Board Meeting Date: April 21, 2015

Subject:

Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
adopts the attached 2016 Performance Measures for mission statement goals 1-7. There are 23
specific performance measures in total.
POLICY REFERENCE
Fiscal Policy Statements – Budget Policy 10
BACKGROUND
Each year the RTD Board of Directors adopts a vision and mission statement, goals, objectives, and
specific performance measures. These measures provide a framework in which RTD can determine
how well it provides service to its passengers and the citizens of the District within the context of its
mission statement. A report detailing year-to-date performance on each of these measures is
presented to the Board of Directors following the end of each quarter. The proposed performance
measures for 2016 are brought to the Board of Directors for approval at this time because the
measures are used in development of the 2016-2021 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and 2016 Budget.
DISCUSSION
Recommended changes in the adopted goals from 2015 to 2016 are listed below:
 Goal 1.4 Reduce the number of light rail accidents
o Reportable Light Rail/Auto Accidents per month is removed while Reportable Light Rail
Accidents per 100,000 miles – Preventable is retained. The first measure is considered
no longer relevant as the focus should be directed to preventable accidents. The
revised measure is now the equivalent in Rail as for Bus (Goal 1.1).


Goal 3.1 Maintain system-wide on time performance
o The goal for system-wide on time performance is reduced for Local On-Time Bus Service
from 88.0% to 86.0% and similarly reduced for Regional & Express On-Time Service
from 94.0% to 92.0%. On-time service data has been collected since 2011 using
Automated Passenger Counters which have a GPS component. This automated
collection method has enabled the collection of far more accurate data regarding
scheduled and actual on-time performance.
Data counts alone have exceeded
18,000/day vs. 240/day using the previous observational method.
The new data
capture methodology has shown on-time performance consistently in the 83%-86%
range for local service. A peer review survey indicated actual on-time performance of
82% on average.



Goal 3.3 Improve miles between road calls

Packet Pg. 36

2.14.H

o

The goal for Mileage Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls is increased from
26,000 to 28,000 miles. The improvement is expected due to the new bus vehicles
that dominate the bus fleet and require fewer maintenance road calls. A lost service
maintenance road call is a maintenance-related problem that results in a revenue vehicle
being traded, towed, or repaired on the street causing a service delay of 1 minute or
more. Mileage between lost service road calls is calculated by dividing actual miles
operated by the number of lost service maintenance road calls.



Goal 6.1 Maintain all required recovery ratios
A yes/no indication of whether the required SB154 Cost Recovery ratio is met is added
along with the ratio’s definition. The definition of the Operating Cost Recovery ratio is
also added (this ratio is not required by law but has a Board-approved goal of 20%).
The difference between the two ratios is essentially the use of a wider revenue base
that includes federal grants and investment income in the SB154 ratio’s numerator. The
required SB154 ratio is 30% and the calculation will be provided with the Financial
Status Reports at each quarter-end only.



Goal 6.2 Increase ridership
o Overall Ridership Increase will be established by the financial plans inherent in the
adoption of the 2016 Annual Budget in November 2015 and in the Board-approved
Ridership Goal model and it is carried as a placeholder at this time.



Goal 6.3 Increase in fare revenue and total operating revenue
o These measures will be established by the financial plans inherent in the adoption of the
2016 Annual Budget in November 2015 and are carried as placeholders at this time.

It is noted that we will develop a performance protocol for commuter rail linked to the concessionaire
agreement with Denver Transit Operators and such measurement report will be brought to the Board
for review at a later date.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2016 Performance Measures will be utilized in the development of the final 2016 Adopted
Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Adopt the 2016 Goals and Objectives and the accompanying performance measures included
in the 2016 Performance Report.
2. Modify the recommended 2016 Goals and Objectives and the accompanying performance
measures to be included in the 2016 Performance Report and make required adjustments, if
necessary, to the 2016 Requested Budget.

3. Do not adopt the 2016 Goals and Objectives and the accompanying performance measures
included in the 2016 Performance Report.

Packet Pg. 37

2.14.H
ATTACHMENTS:


2016 Performance Measures - Proposed

(DOCM)

Prepared by:
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager, Budget and Financial Analysis
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 38

2.14.H.a

2016 PERFORMANCE REPORT
VISION

MISSION STATEMENT
TO MEET OUR CONSTITUENTS’ PRESENT AND FUTURE PUBLIC TRANSIT NEEDS BY OFFERING SAFE,
CLEAN, RELIABLE, COURTEOUS, ACCESSIBLE, AND COST-EFFECTIVE SERVICE THROUGHOUT THE
DISTRICT.

GOAL 1: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING SAFE
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.
Objectives:
♦
♦
♦
♦
♦

Reduce vehicle accident ratio
Increase preventive maintenance
Reduce passenger accident ratio
Improve light rail safety
Improve employee safety

PERFORMANCE MEASURES:
1.1 Reduce the number of safety incidents.
(Department: Bus Operations)
Vehicle Accident Involvements per 100,000 miles – Preventable
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont
Passenger Accident Ratio per 100,000 miles – System-wide
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit - Longmont

1

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

0.6
0.7
0.5
0.2
0.4
0.9

0.72
0.58
1.15
0.54
1.04
0.80

•2.0
•2.0
•2.0
•2.0
•2.0
•2.0

2016
Proposed
Goal
•2.0
•2.0
•2.0
•2.0
•2.0
•2.0

0.05
0.05
0.07
0.08
0.04
0.00

0.12
0.11
0.14
0.12
0.18
0.04

•0.18
•0.18
•0.18
•0.18
•0.18
•0.18

•0.18
•0.18
•0.18
•0.18
•0.18
•0.18

1

Operator-Passenger Assault Ratio per 100,000 boardings
0.04
0.04
•0.06
•0.06
1
An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of road, weather or
traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 39
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

TO DELIVER REGIONAL MULTI-MODAL TRANSPORTATION SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT SIGNIFICANTLY AND CONTINUALLY INCREASE TRANSIT MARKET SHARE.

2.14.H.a

GOAL 1: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING SAFE
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.

1.2 Percentage of Preventive Maintenance inspections incurred as
2013
1
scheduled every 6,000 miles.
Actual
(Department: Bus Operations)
Percentage of Preventive Maintenance inspections incurred as scheduled
99.6%
every 6,000 miles – system wide
RTD
99.5%
First Transit - Commerce City
100%
Transdev (fka Veolia)
99.1%
First Transit – Denver
100%
First Transit – Longmont
100%
1
Inspections are scheduled 600 miles prior to 6,000 miles or 600 miles after 6,000 miles.

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

2016
Proposed
Goal

99.6%

98%

98%

99.3%
100%
99.5%
100%
100%

98%
98%
98%
98%
98%

98%
98%
98%
98%
98%

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

2015
Goal

1.3 Improve response time to emergency dispatch calls.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2013
Actual

Average Response Time

18 sec.

2016
Proposed
Goal
18 sec. •20 sec. •20 sec.

1.4 Reduce the number of light rail accidents.
(Department: Rail Operations)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2016
Proposed
Goal
2
Reportable Light Rail Accidents per 100,000 miles – Preventable
0
0
•2.0
•2.0
2
An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of road, weather or
traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 40
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

PERFORMANCE MEASURES (CONTINUED):

2.14.H.a

GOAL 2: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING CLEAN
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.

♦ Prompt graffiti removal
♦ Prompt bus interior and exterior cleaning
♦ Prompt shelter cleaning

PERFORMANCE MEASURES:
2.1 Prompt response to facility complaints.
(Department: Safety, Security, and Facilities)
Average Response Time Public Complaints
Average Graffiti Complaints per Month
Average Facilities Maintenance Complaints per Month

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

2016
Proposed
Goal
•4 hours <4 hours •4 hours •4 hours
1.17
1.0
•1.5
•1.5
2
16.1
11.0
•20.0
•20.0

1

Elevator
3
3.3
1
Snow/ice
2.3
2.7
1
Shelter
2
1
1
Other
4.7
5
1
These types of complaints are shown separately for the first time in 2013.
2
The proposed goal is increased in 2015 to reflect system growth in facilities that is challenging our resources.

2.2 Prompt response to vehicle complaints.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

Average Overdue Bus Interior Cleaning per Month
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont

0.00
0.20
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

•1.0
•1.0
•1.0
•1.0
•1.0
•1.0

2016
Proposed
Goal
•1.0
•1.0
•1.0
•1.0
•1.0
•1.0

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 41
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

Objectives:

2.14.H.a

GOAL 3: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING RELIABLE
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.

♦ Improve on-time performance
♦ Improve miles between lost service road calls
♦ Decrease number of missed trips

PERFORMANCE MEASURES:
3.1 Maintain system-wide on time performance.
(Departments: Bus Operations, Rail Operations)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

2016
Proposed
2
Goal

1

Local On-Time Service – System-wide
84.3%
85.7%
88.0%
86.0%
RTD Local
83.9%
84.0%
88.0%
86.0%
First Transit - Commerce City
84.5%
83.7%
88.0%
86.0%
Transdev (fka Veolia)
85.4%
88.3%
88.0%
86.0%
First Transit – Denver
84.6%
87.1%
88.0%
86.0%
First Transit – Longmont
84.4%
87.9%
88.0%
86.0%
1
Regional & Express On-Time Service
87.5%
89.8%
94.0%
92.0%
1
Light Rail - On-Time Service
91.2%
94.1%
90.0%
90.0%
Light Rail - Service Available
99.9%
99.9%
99.0%
99.0%
1
On-time is arrival at a location no more than 1 minute early and no more than 5 minutes after the scheduled arrival
time.
2
Goal is changed to 86% for local service and 92% for regional and express service. The use of APCs with GPS has
yielded more accurate data along with a much higher number of data counts. This data capture methodology has
shown local on-time performance consistently in the 83%-86% range.

3.2 Adherence to scheduled Revenue Service trip start time.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

Adherence to scheduled Revenue Service trip start time – system wide
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%

2016
Proposed
Goal
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%
99.0%

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 42
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

Objectives:

2.14.H.a

GOAL 3: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING RELIABLE
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.

3.3 Improve miles between road calls.
(Departments: Bus Operations)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

2016
Proposed
3
Goal

29,224

31,587

26,000

28,000

RTD
Transit Bus
Medium Bus
Articulated Bus
Intercity Bus

3

25,721
23,084
N/A
19,104
36,821

30,728
27,990
N/A
19,311
51,640

26,000

28,000

First Transit - Commerce City
Transit Bus

42,134
44,367

37,345
37,817

26,000

28,000

Medium Bus

31,475

35,923

Transdev (fka Veolia)
Transit Bus
Medium Bus

32,519
29,538
40,072

30,131
24,706
51,209

26,000

28,000

First Transit – Denver
Transit Bus
Medium Bus
Cutaway Bus

38,636
36,955
72,546
N/A

37,207
39,838
24,824
N/A

26,000

28,000

First Transit – Longmont
Transit Bus
Medium Bus
Cutaway Bus

43,954
43,853
47,735
31,480

61,463
68,495
61,908
27,599

26,000

28,000

Hours Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (Mall)
1,995
2,175
•600
1
District-wide mileage between lost service maintenance road calls excludes the Mall Shuttles.
2
Maintenance effectiveness for the Sixteenth Street Mall Shuttle is measured in terms of service hours.
3
Improvement is due to newer bus vehicles in the fleet.
4
Average age of the fleet follows:

•600

Mileage Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (District)

1,4

2

2014
Quantity

2014
Average
Age

2015
Quantity

2015
Average
Age

2016
Quantity

2016
Average
Age

1,010

10.7

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

RTD - Boulder
RTD – Platte (including Mall Shuttle)
RTD – East Metro
First Transit - Commerce City

114
268
195
119

8.9
12.2
12.9
9.1

N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

First Transit - Denver

130

9.4

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

First Transit – Longmont

79

9.5

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Transdev (fka Veolia)

105

9.7

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Mall Shuttles
38
11.6
5
The Board of Directors does not adopt goals for these; informational only.

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Fleet Average Number of Buses and Average Age

5

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 43
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

PERFORMANCE MEASURES (CONTINUED):

2.14.H.a

GOAL 4: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING COURTEOUS
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.

♦ Reduce customer response time
♦ Limit customer complaints
♦ Decrease average wait time for telephone information
♦ Complete installation of shelter boards by date of service change

PERFORMANCE MEASURES:
4.1 Reduce average customer response time.
(Department: Communications)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

Average TIC Speed of Answer (in seconds)
49
31
1
In 2015, the measure is changed from Average TIC Call Wait Time to Average Speed of Answer.

•65

4.2 Improve level of customer complaints.
(Departments: Bus Operations, Communications)

2015
Goal

1

Avg. Response Time to Customer Complaints
Average Cycle Time

3

2016
Proposed
Goal
•65

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2016
Proposed
Goal

10.9
business
days

10.68
business • 10 days • 10 days
days

2

RTD Transportation (Bus and Rail)
RTD All Other Departments
First Transit – Commerce City
First Transit - Denver
First Transit - Longmont
Transdev (fka Veolia)
Complaints per Boardings (District)
RTD
Local
Express
First Transit - Commerce City
Local
Express
Transdev (fka Veolia)
Local
Express

.0004
.0003
.0003
.0003
.0005
.0005
.0005
.0005
.0005
.0007

.0004
.0003
.0003
.0003
.0004
.0004
.0005
.0005
.0005
.0004

.0004

.0004

.0004

.0004

.0004

.0004

First Transit – Denver
.0005
.0005
.0004
.0004
Local
.0005
.0005
Express
.0004
.0004
First Transit – Longmont
.0004
.0003
.0004
.0004
Local
.0004
.0003
Express
N/A
N/A
2
The measure reports on resolution of customer complaints across all subject matter throughout the District and the
number includes all departments utilizing TrapezeCOM system for commendation and complaint research.
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 44
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

Objectives:

2.14.H.a
3

The measure is changed in 2015 from Initial Response and Final Resolution to Average Cycle Time, which will measure
the average number of days between when a customer contact is entered for action and when the action is completed
(closed). The categories are also added for 2015.

PERFORMANCE MEASURES (CONTINUED):
4.3 Complete installation of shelterboards by date of service change.
(Department: Customer Service)
Implementation scheduled for January 2016, May 2016, and August 2016 dates.

GOAL 5: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING ACCESSIBLE
TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICE.
Objectives:
♦ Improve on-time performance standards
♦ Improve ADA trip availability
♦ Improve ADA courtesy

PERFORMANCE MEASURES:

5.1 Improve ADA on-time performance.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

Access-a-Ride On-time Service

96.3%

94.9%

96.0%

5.3 Improve ADA trip availability.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

Adherence to ADA mandate to have zero denials to service request

100%

100%

100%

5.3 Improve ADA courtesy.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

Average ADA complaints per boarding

0.0009

0.0001

0.001

2016
Proposed
Goal
96.0%

2016
Proposed
Goal
100%

2016
Proposed
Goal
0.001

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 45
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

GOAL 4: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING COURTEOUS
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.

2.14.H.a

GOAL 6: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING COSTEFFECTIVE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.
Objectives:
♦ Increase ridership
♦ Increase farebox and EcoPass revenue
♦ Improve route efficiency
♦ Monitor selected internal functions for efficiency
♦ Maintain cost effective and efficient transportation services
♦ Hire and train competent personnel

PERFORMANCE MEASURES:
6.1 Maintain all required recovery ratios.
(Department: Finance)
Operating Cost Recovery Ratio

1

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

27.0%

33.2%

20%

2016
Proposed
Goal
20%

2

SB154 Cost Recovery Ratio
Yes
1
Ratio is defined as farebox revenues (excluding ADA), advertising revenues, and other operating revenues divided by
operating and administrative costs, depreciation on bus operations assets, excluding ADA costs, rapid transit planning
costs, and interest payments on rapid transit assets.
2
Ratio is defined as farebox revenues (excluding ADA), advertising revenues, federal operating grants, federal formula
bus grants, other operating revenues, and investment income divided by operating and administrative costs, depreciation
on bus operations assets, excluding ADA costs, rapid transit planning costs, and interest payments on rapid transit
assets. The required ratio is 30% and the calculation will be provided with the Financial Status Reports at the end of
each calendar quarter only. Goal here is whether ratio is met by yes/no indication.

6.2 Increase ridership.
(Department: Finance)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

Overall Ridership Increase
2.7%
3.2%
0.0%
3
Per the 2015 Budget and Ridership Goal model as adopted by the Board of Directors. It is a forecast.
4
To be established with the 2016 Budget.

3

6.3 Increase in fare revenue and total revenue.
(Departments: Finance, Communications)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

6.4 Monitor selected internal functions for efficiency.
(Department: Communications)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

19

21

20

2016
Proposed
Goal
4
N/A

2016
Proposed
Goal
5
6
Fare Revenue
4.3%
2.3%
(1.3%)
N/A
5
6
Total Operating Revenue
4.0%
1.5%
(1.4%)
N/A
5
Per the 2015 Budget as adopted by the Board of Directors. It is a forecast of percent change in 2015 Adopted Budget
over 2014 Amended Budget.
6
To be established with the 2016 Budget.

Audits

2016
Proposed
Goal
20

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 46
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

♦ Maintain cost recovery ratios

2.14.H.a

GOAL 6: TO MEET THE PRESENT TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT BY PROVIDING COST-EFFECTIVE
AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.

6.5 Maintain bus operator/mechanic headcount within authorization.
(Department: Bus Operations)

1

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

2016
Proposed
Goal

2
0%
2.4%
•5.0%
•5.0%
Bus Operator – Vacancies
Bus Operator – Over Headcount
4.9%
0%
•4.0%
•4.0%
Bus Mechanic – Vacancies
10.6%
9.5%
•7.5%
•7.5%
Bus Mechanic – Over Headcount
0%
0%
•0.0%
•0.0%
1
Authorized headcount represents the level of personnel required to meet service demands in the current runboard.
2
Human Resources has been authorized to exceed authorized headcount to compensate for operator attrition.

6.6 Maintain stock-out level.
(Department: Administration)

2013
Actual

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

3

1.0%

0.95%

1.5%

Stock-Out Level
3
Calculated as number of stock-out occurrences divided by number of requests.

2016
Proposed
Goal
1.5%

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 47
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

PERFORMANCE MEASURES (CONTINUED):

2.14.H.a

GOAL 7: TO MEET THE FUTURE TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF THE DISTRICT.

7.1 Deliver civic and neighborhood presentations to communicate with the
2013
2014
2015
public regarding service issues.
Actual
Actual
Goal
(Departments: Communications, Executive Office, Bus Operations,
Planning)
Communications
43
96
§
General Manager
84
130
§
Service Change
11
17
§
Route and Service Planning
140
97
§
Local Government Planning Workshops
3
4
3
Community Advisory Committee Meetings
12
7
4
Info Rides
70
20
§
§
The Board of Directors does not adopt goals for these performance measures; for reporting purposes only.

7.2 Accurate Financial Analysis
(Department: Finance)

Distinguished Budget Presentation Award

Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in
Financial Reporting

2014
Actual

2015
Goal

2016
Proposed
Goal
§
§
§
§
3
4
§

2016 Proposed
Goal

Received
Receive
Receive
Distinguished
Distinguished
Distinguished
Budget Presentation Budget Presentation Budget Presentation
Award from the
Award from the
Award from the
Government
Government
Government
Finance Officers
Finance Officers
Finance Officers
Association by year- Association by year- Association by yearend.
end.
end.
Receive Certificate Receive Certificate Receive Certificate
of Achievement for of Achievement for of Achievement for
Excellence In
Excellence In
Excellence In
Financial Reporting Financial Reporting Financial Reporting
from the
from the
from the
Government
Government
Government
Finance Officers
Finance Officers
Finance Officers
Association in fourth Association by year- Association by yearquarter.
end.
end.

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
2016 Performance Measures
Packet Pg. 48
April 14, 2015

Attachment: 2016 Performance Measures - Proposed (2326 : Adoption of 2016 Performance Measures)

PERFORMANCE MEASURES:

