Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 8, 2009
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 8, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
on September 8, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D at 6:36 p.m.

*****
Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Chair Brohl, Vice-Chair Chacon, Director Bagley, Director
Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James, Director
Martinez, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam ,
Director Tobiassen

Director Busck, Director Kemp, Director Tayer,

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Paula Perdue, David Genova, Stan Szabelak, Terry
Howerter, Jeff Becker, Eric Farrington, Bill Porter, Bruce Abel, Martha
Hecox, Cal Shankster, Larry Buter, George Hovey, Gary Googins,
Trent Ratcliff, Mike Gil, Pauletta Tonilas, John Tarbert, Mike Gil, Brian
Matthews

Others Present:

Don Robinette (RouteMatch)

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 6:36 p.m. Director Brohl began
the meeting by expressing her gratitude to the GM Transition and Executive Transition
Committee for all the hard work they have done.
I.

Recommended Actions
a. January 2010 Service Changes – Bruce Abel introduced this item. These
service changes are between $600-700,000 as specified by the Board
during discussions on the 2010 budget.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed January 10, 2010 Service
Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 8, 2009
Page 2 of 5

Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward this item
onto the September 22, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Cohen seconded the motion

Discussion: Director Daly spoke about the closure of Pine Junction and said
he understands the reason why. The District will save $63,000 with this
closure. Pine Junction is down to about twenty cars a day with the start of
the Parking Management program. Many of the passengers are already
using other park-n-Rides or parking off street in Pine Junction.
Director Daly wanted to know the percentage of service that will be cut in
January 2010? Bill Porter responded that it is less than .5% of a service
reduction.
Director O’Boyle asked if we own the Pine Junction park-n-Ride. Bruce Abel
responded that the District leases it from CDOT.
Director McMullen was pleased to see the service enhancements on the
Route 105.
Director Tobiassen expressed his gratitude for the service enhancements on
the Route 105. He met with East Metro drivers and the Route 105 came up
as a frequent problem so he is grateful for the enhancements.
Director Daly expressed concern about cutting the Route 30 since it meets
service standards. Bill Porter responded that it only results in a fifteen
minute change. People will either have to travel fifteen minutes earlier or
later. Director Daly wanted to know if staff has considered articulated buses
for the 105. Mr. Porter responded that part of the problem is the number of
wheelchairs and strollers on the route. The 15 minute frequency should be
able to help with getting the route on time.
Director Martinez said that he was glad to see the tweaking of service rather
than eliminating complete routes where there is no transit alternative.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 8, 2009
Page 3 of 5

II.

Quarterly Reports – Bruce Abel spoke to these items and asked if there were any
questions from the Committee.
a. Contract Fixed Route – Director Martinez expressed concern about routes
running late. He has received a number of complaints. Bruce Abel said the
full set of performance measures coming next week at the Financial
Administration Committee. The District’s definition of on time is no more
than one minute early and not later than five minutes. Our on-time goal is
88%. Carolyn Conover said that the Route 20 is having problems with
traffic delays and a lot of people boarding through town.
b. Access-a-Ride – There were no questions on this report.
c. Special Services – There were no questions on this report.
d. Security – Director Chacon asked about the increase in fare evasion and
wanted to know why it has jumped so much. John Tarbert responded that
riders during the summer are not always familiar with the process of how to
buy a ticket. He used the Pepsi Center Station as an example; you have
parents and children going to Elitch Gardens that don’t know they need to
buy a ticket.
Director O’Boyle said that the Pepsi Center one day sweep is disturbing, he
would like staff to do follow ups to make sure fare evasion rates go down.
He would like to see Broncos Sunday excluded from the totals because the
rate is so low.
Director Tobiassen asked for an update on training street supervisors to do
fare checks on bus. Mr. Tarbert said training begins next month.
Chair Brohl asked about putting fare evasion report on the website to show
people that we do fare tracking. She feels this is becoming an urban legend
that RTD does not check fares. Phil Washington said this could be discussed
as an option. Bruce Abel spoke about how 70% of light rail passengers are
traveling on pre-paid media so it may give the perception that people are
riding for free when really only three out of ten riders would be purchasing
at TVMs.

III.

Pandemic Service Plan – Bruce Abel introduced this item. Bill Porter gave the
overview of the plan. It has two phases. Phase 1 the District would selectively
reduce service as drivers and mechanics became unavailable and then as that became
unworkable Phase 2 would go into effect. Phase 2 would be operating at 60% of a
normal weekday. They took Saturday schedules and augmented them which means
beefing up the morning service, some service that doesn’t normally operate on
Saturdays would be implemented if it services a hospital. This would be
implemented only in case of a severe emergency.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 8, 2009
Page 4 of 5

Staff has met with the ATU and every driver would become a member of the extra
board if this would be implemented. Staff is treating it like a regular run board - time
tables, etc. all ready to go if needed.
Vice-Chair Chacon wanted to know if this plan is tied to the office of Emergency
Preparedness. Dave Genova responded that it could be. Staff has developed on
overall pandemic plan for the District and it should be finalized within the next week.
The State hasn’t given us a lot of detail on certain issues i.e. what level would they
order us to reduce service? Mr. Genova said that some of the details may have to be
developed over time.
Mr. Genova shared that the H1N1 virus is not as severe as first thought and plans
have been revised since the spring.
Director Cohen wanted to know if we are doing increased training with the drivers
since they are our first point of contact. Mr. Genova gave an overview of the
pandemic plan and what it covers. We would do employee bulletins similar to ones
distributed in the spring covering good hygiene practices. OSHA has a good
document on how to protect employees and we have incorporated this into our plan.
We have a long lead time on this and a great deal of work has gone into this plan.
Security is fine tuning the rest of the plan.
Mr. Porter said that the service plan will be updated on an annual basis.
Committee Chair Brohl questioned the role of the Board to conduct Board meetings in
the event of a pandemic and requested the Board Executive Committee to review this
issue.
IV.

2009 RTD Paratransit Customer Survey Results – Bruce Abel wanted to share this
report with the Committee. Staff had an exit interview with the FTA Compliance
review and had good results on the interview. The compliance review had no
significant findings. Phil Washington added that there is an official response coming
and the Board will receive a copy of this.

V.

Radio-CAD/AVL Replacement Project Update – Eric Farrington gave this presentation.
The purpose of the presentation is to let the Board know the radio recommendation
and proceed from there. Staff is working on a radio license application. The draft
RFP should be ready by October 2009 with a peer review scheduled for late
September. Staff hopes to present the RFP in late fall. The District is in tower site
negotiations with Arapahoe County, State of Colorado, Boulder County. Staff
expects to have a recommendation for the RFP by next summer. Staff
recommendation is for a State of Colorado DTRS for voice and commercial cellular
communications for data as our new communications system.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on September 8, 2009
Page 5 of 5

Vice – Chair Chacon wanted to know about a DBE goal and Eric Farrington said that
he was working with Kenn Hardin on establishing a goal.
VI.

Access-a-Ride MDT demonstration – Route Match – Don Robinette from RouteMatch
gave a demonstration of the functionality of the AVL/MDT units. With the new
AVL/MDTs in place, we are now able to implement will calls on a much more reliable
basis as dispatch can actually see which vehicles are in the area and assign that
driver. Chair Brohl wanted to know if this process was already implemented and
Larry Buter responded that it is now in place.
Mr. Robinette gave a run through of the how the AVL/MDTs function and the
different capabilities that the machines have.

VII.

Access-a-Ride “Will-Call” Process – This agenda item was discussed under item VI.

VIII.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Operations and Customer Services
Committee will be October 13, 2009.

IX.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

X.

Adjourn– Hearing no objection, Chair Brohl adjourned the Operations and Customer
Services Committee at 8:21 p.m.

