2022-06-28
Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I will now call the Tuesday, June 28 RTD Board Meeting to order. We are convened
as of 5:32 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings of the
Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. Visit RTD.Denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube
page.
The calling of being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective duty
to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect,
cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality, user values we can all agree upon as such.
I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in accordance
with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website. Thank you.
Next, we'll go to the Pledge of Allegiance. And I would kindly ask Director Tisdale to lead us in the Pledge.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I Pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the
Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I will now read the land acknowledgment. The RTD Board of
Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the
Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We
honor our indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains
throughout generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the
ongoing legacies of inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current
and future contributions in the district as we move forward.
With that, Ms. McManus, I will ask you to call the roll
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here
Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Williams.?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening, I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: And I'm here also.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, one absent. We have a quorum.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thank you for that. Next, we're going to move on to retiree awards. And one of the
many truly rewarding duties of serving on this Board is the recognition of RTD retirees.

As we reach the end of the second quarter, the time has come to recognize the employees who have moved
on to enjoy their retirement. Being able to acknowledge the incredible individuals who work here for a
significant portion of their professional careers is both an honor and a privilege. It's becoming increasingly
rare for agencies and companies to be fortunate enough to have such long-tenured employees. And RTD
is privileged to have such amazing and dedicated people as part of our family.
At this time, I'd like to read the names of employees who have retired since March. Due to COVID, we've
been unable to give these amazing individuals the send-off they deserve in our Blake Street boardroom.
But tonight we would like to recognize and acknowledge their time and dedication to the agency. And I'll
read the names of the retirees.
We have Sean Crowe, bus operator 22 years, Hamid Farahani, bus operator 20 years, Edward Fay,
telecommunications analyst 17 years, Mark Thwaits, parts clerk 22 years, Jeffrey Worstel, full time bus
instructor 18 years. And do we know if we have any of the retirees present?
Unfortunately, none of our retirees were able to attend tonight's meeting. But I would like to thank them
again, for their hard work and commitment to RTD. And the Board wishes them well in their future
endeavors. Director Rivera-Malpiede? Go ahead.
Thank you, Mr Chair. As you were talking about these number of years, that is 97 years at RTD collectively.
And that is rich history knowledge. And I just would like to say, thank you. You're right, we're not seeing
those numbers anymore. That is an outstanding number. Thank you, Mr Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. And I see people applauding silently in the Zoom windows.
And I know on behalf of all of the Board of Directors, we thank all of these retirees, both the ones we've
read here tonight and in the past. Thanks for your hard work and dedicated service.
I'm going to move on now to the public participation phase of our meeting. This is open to anyone who
would like to address the Board. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your
virtual hand or press *9 on phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak.
If you are dialed in, press *6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this
process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be
submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board or if any member
of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at
RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names. And they will have up to three minutes to provide their comments. Ms
McManus, do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we have a Richard Bamber.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Mr. Bamber, if you're there, please state your name and start speaking. Mr. Bamber,
we can't hear you. So you may be muted.
RICHARD BAMBER: My apologies. Is that working now?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, we got you.

Hello. Good evening, it's Richard Bamber. B-A-M-B-E-R. Reading the agenda packet for tonight, at the
bottom of page 50, which is attached to see 2022 amended budgets, we see a line item that's potentially
quite exciting, which is for purchase of 27 new LRV vehicles, just over $16 million. Can anybody get back
to me? And is that something the agency is going to move forward with this year?
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Bamber, thanks for your comments. And we'll see if we can get somebody to respond
off to you. Thank you. Any other speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we have Paolo Solarzano.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Solarzano, why don't you go ahead, state your name, and you may give us your
comments. And I think you're on mute as well, Mr. Solorzano.
PAOLO SOLARZANO: OK. Hello?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We can here you. You're on mute again,
PAOLO SOLARZANO: OK, hello. Hi, this is Paolo Solarzano. I'm with the Green Latinos now, as a
representative for the Green Latinos. And I've been reaching out for a while as well for other reasons. But
I guess the main thing I want to bring up right now is again, the scheduling and on-site signage, the banners
on the stations.
As I've said, the outreach to the Riders, the Union Riders is going to be starting ramping up now. But we
went out. And I know this is a huge problem nationwide in the funding. But I just want to bring this up
publicly, that we need to really focus on the A-Line and the cancelations and the scheduling.
We went out and canvassed about three weeks ago, a few of us. And we had a lot of people that missed
their flights. And then now, there's national press talking about the problems here. So we can't afford any
more of the scheduling mishaps.
The Stanley Cup, the MLB All-star game was mired with mistakes. And that gets out. Even just a few hours
of canvassing out there, we've noticed that a lot of people missed their flights and stuff like that. And that
gets out there internationally.
Again, I'd love to talk to somebody about this. And what needs to happen with IT or anything? What kind of
support do they need? Because some of the notifications come out a minute before or after a cancelation
which does not bode well for the A-Line specifically, because that's a very high profile line. But yeah, thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Solorzano, thank you for your comments. Ms. McManus, are there any other speakers?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There are no other speakers in the queue? And there were no online
communications sent via email.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And so with no participants in the queue and no email comments, we will not close
the public participation period at this time and move on to the External Entities reports. The Access-a-Ride
Paratransit Advisory Committee, APAC, does not have an update, but will present their next report in July.
The Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, APCD Report, will be presented by Mr. Earl Lee. Mr.
Lee, the floor is now yours.

EARL LEE: Thank you very much. I'm glad to be here this evening. Jamie Lewis, unfortunately, was not
able to present. And he asked me to fill in for him.
I have been a member of the ACPD now for a couple of years. And I just want to say that I've seen some
great improvements within the group. And I think we're actually doing some work that is good for RTD.
In our last meeting, we had an update regarding the 83L. It is a bus that goes near but not to Denver Health.
And there has been some questions raised about whether the 83L could have a stop closer to Denver
Health. It seems to be there's some interest there.
And we had discussed it in our meeting prior to our last one and met with some comments that it was not
possible. So we asked that it be reviewed again. Moe Sullivan presented to us on the 19th of May with
details, including some photographs and some maps and extended information about why it was not a
viable alternative at this time. So I think we have put the 83L additional stop behind us at this point.
The other main discussion that we had on the 19th was with Henry Stopplecamp, who spent a great deal
of time explaining the enhancements planned for Denver Union Station bus terminal. As a person with a
disability, this is of great concern for me, having some concerns about the elevator and certainly for a very
long time, the restrooms being very uncomfortable to use. And I think that although it's still early in the
process, and I wish it could happen sooner than 12 to 18 months, it sounds like there is a plan to move
forward to make the Union Station a safer, cleaner, healthier place to be.
In particular, the restrooms are always an issue. And again, the deep cleaning has been done. There's
some construction work that needs to be done. And we have not heard any time frame as to when we might
see those restrooms open again.
And I believe that's really a recap of our meeting. It was full of lots of information for us. And I appreciate
the opportunity to present you tonight. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Lee, thank you very much for your report and your continued work on the committee.
Next, we're going to have the report of the Citizens Advisory Committee, the CAC. That report will be
presented by Matt Appelbaum. Matt, go ahead.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thanks again, everyone. We had one meeting actually, a couple of weeks ago. But
the entire meeting was the go to pretty much to our one-on-one meetings with you, the Board members.
We were able to meet with 11 of you. Four meetings didn't happen, mostly travel issues. And we'll try to set
those up. So thank you very much to all of you who were willing to meet with our CAC members. We really
appreciate that.
That's a really valuable activity for us on the committee. We get to know, you you get to know us. We get
to talk in person about some of the concerns, issues we have and you have. And hopefully, we'll make this
a yearly event.
Regarding those meetings, a number of issues came up, some of them from several of you and several of
our members. One of them is RTD's revenues and situation that RTD finds itself in. We know that you've
created a new subcommittee on revenues. And we hope to get some information about that in the future,
report on that, maybe weigh in a little bit.
We talked about other revenue issues like TABOR and the fact that the TABOR, the Debrucing is going to
expire in a few years. What might RTD do about that? And how could the CAC help, especially if this goes

through a ballot issue? Presumably, it will at some point in time. We're very supportive if that does get on
the ballot.
A numbe is taught about how to get better CAC recommendations to you on the Board. That's something
we're still working on. There are some issues there, especially on the shorter issues, not the long-term
issues. And in fact, there's a timing or a chicken and egg issue we've got that we need to figure out with
you on the Board and with staff as well.
There are a number of things where the staff really wants to go to the Board first before they go to CAC,
since our meetings are public, of course. But that means by the time we see something, the Board has
already seen it, perhaps acted on it, perhaps not, which means that any recommendations or issues we
have kind of come to the Board a little bit after the fact. And if you really want our advice and ideas on
things, well, we got to get in there first. So how do we do that?
And we don't know for sure. But that's something that needs to be dealt with in some way. It doesn't happen
all that often,. But it has happened several times. And it is a concern of ours and apparently of some of the
members too. This came up in a number of conversations.
Issues about the CAC role-- I think most of us in the CAC, and frankly, this is thanks to you on the Board
for appointing really great people to the CAC. And we know we've got some new members coming. But
you've appointed people who have a lot of transit knowledge and/or urban design knowledge or
transportation mobility knowledge in general. And so I think we'd really like to see ourselves as a group that
gives policy advice when we can.
That's relatively easy on some of the longer term issues, like REIMAGINE and Bear study, which we
certainly want to stay involved with. Again, it's a little bit harder and some of the shorter term issues where
there are some timing problems that are hard to figure out. The other CAC rule that comes up sometimes
and did in these meetings is, can we help with some outreach?
Frankly, some of our members on the CAC are better at that than others. I will say I'm lousy at it. Yes, I was
on the city council for many years. But it just isn't my thing. I'm a policy wonk.
But when RTD does have outreach meetings, or you Board members have outreach meetings in your
districts, that is something that our CAC members would almost certainly be happy to join you on if we were
invited and had some advanced notice. So that's a place we could help out.
Another part of outreach that we could help out on, and this came up in some conversations as well, is
speaking to the state legislature. There are a lot of issues there and more to come, no doubt. Our members,
many of them do know their state legislators and could provide some assistance in talking to the legislature.
We'd be happy to go down and talk to the legislature on carefully chosen issues. We check in with the
Board first to be sure. But it's something we could offer the Board.
So anyway, great meetings, a lot of issues. We need to work on some issues. I think you as a Board need
to work on, especially some of the timing issues, and again, how to use the CAC better as a policy advisory
board on some of these key long-term issues. But we'll get back to you on some of that over the next few
months.
Other thing that came up was we would dearly love to meet in person. I suspect you would too. And I know
there are issues doing that at the RTD offices. Our meeting in June was virtual. We're hoping to meet in
July in person offsite. That's partly because we have a bunch of new members who will be joining us, and

I'm sure you're aware, it's been really hard for new members when they just live in a virtual world. They
don't really feel like they're getting to know people.
So we'll see if we can pull it off. We hope we can. We of course, will always have a call-in option, though.
It's not everybody can make it, and we get that. So anyway, that's kind of a ramp up of that, with again,
follow-ups to come on a number of issues.
Otherwise, just a few procedural things-- we elected a new co-chair who will serve with me for a year. And
that's John Fuch, who's great. He's a relatively new member. But he's the community development Director
worker. And so yeah, he knows a lot about urban planning and urban design and mobility issues, as you
would expect. And it's great to have somebody down from that part of the world.
We had some members leave, some fabulous members, whose terms expired, Joe Lamers, Brian McClure,
[INAUDIBLE] Phillips, Joann Moriscatto, who was my co-chair for the last year. They were great. We're
sorry to see them go. But again, we're really looking forward to the new members.
And then finally, another big change for us. And that is of course, it was the last meeting for us where Roger
from CRL is our advisor and the person who we have worked with for many years now. I've known Roger
for years and years and years. And he's been great. He was great with the CAC in keeping us up to date
and getting great speakers.
So we will miss Roger. But we're looking forward to working with the new advisor, Jennifer Webster, whom
I met with a week ago. And I am sure she will also do a fabulous job in keeping us up to speed and making
sure that we get good people to come and speak to our agendas. So that's essentially my update. Thanks
very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Appelbaum. And I was pleased to join you in your meeting this month and
then have some good discussion. And it's good to hear that you've had so many meetings with Directors.
And to you, Directors that haven't had the opportunity to schedule your meetings with the CAC
representatives, please, please make sure to do so. It's great to get to know them and see just what they
do bring to our organization. Thanks for that report.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I meant to thank you for attending our meeting, really appreciated that. Because
you were able to weigh in on some things that help us during our discussions. And , hopefully, from time to
time, other Board members will be able to join in on our meetings.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet, you bet Thanks very much for that report. We're going to move on to the Audit Ad
Hoc Committee Report. Director Catlin, do you have a report for us?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr Chair. I had a bit of a trouble unmuting. I'll be very brief. At our Finance and
Planning Committee meeting, we discussed the upcoming contract with Reuben Brown for external auditor,
auditing services for internal audit. And there was a request that the Board see the contract prior to acting
on it, which is on the agenda this evening.
And General Counsel Snyder sent it out yesterday. And I recognize that it was a little bit of a last minute
effort. But I would point out that I've seen a number of these contracts, which embed the terms and
conditions. And it's very much a boilerplate contract. And I think the key is in the scope of work.
So we are very, very excited. Directors Davidson, Dishell, and I are very excited as the Ad Hoc Audit
Committee to have a kickoff meeting with Reuben Broom once this contract is signed on the dotted line,

hopefully after approval tonight. And we can get going on this important exercise. I'm really excited to get it
going. And I would encourage all other Board members to participate, especially at the initial kickoff
meeting, so that we can really clearly articulate our expectations to our consultant.
And with that, that's all I have. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thank you very much for that report. And Directors Davidson and Dishell, thanks for
your work also in the committee. This is really important work.
We're going to move on now to some more really important work. And that's the TABOR Ad Hoc Committee.
Directors Cook and Broom, do you guys have anything for us?
BOB BROOM: Well, thank you, Chair. Just a few brief comments, I guess. Our committee continues to
meet and sift through all the information that we've obtained from outside experts and from RTD staff. We're
probably looking toward planning to have a Debrucing election in 2024. And so you're going to hear more
and more as time goes on about that, and also some interim steps that we may want to recommend to the
Board to take.
As many of you probably know, the voters did give us relief in some bond authorizations. But those are
beginning to run out now. And we're going to be subject to the TABOR Amendment. And so in order to deal
with that, we need to have another election to get voter approval to hopefully eliminate that going forward
forever. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Cook, do you have any more to add? You're good?
Thanks.
Thanks very much for all your work and for that report as well. We'll move now, to the Finance and Planning
Committee report. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Chair. The continuation of my commitment to our discussion at the retreat,
I'll go ahead and give a summary for Directors that weren't in attendance. Bear with me. We had a lengthy,
three-hour meeting at the June 14 Finance and Planning Committee.
We had six committee members present and one absent. We did go through six recommended actions, as
well as one discussion item. So I'll summarize those now.
We did have one public comment at the beginning from Miss Molly McKinley from Denver Street's
partnership, Voicing Support for the IGA for Zero Fare August. We moved into recommended actions, the
first of which consisted of the review of the 2021 Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and Report to
Governance, which included our audited financial reports relating to the year ending December 31, 2021.
Plante Moran, the notable thing here, did issue us an unmodified opinion with no findings to RTD. So
certainly, I offer my compliments to our staff for their continued diligence with our financial statements. After
a presentation by Plante Moran, as well as questions fielded by Plante Moran RTD Chief Financial Officer
Doug MacLeod and his team, the committee voted unanimously with one absent to adopt the report.
The second recommended action was to appropriate funds to increase the 2022 amended budget by 79.7
million. This was also adopted unanimously. For the benefit of Directors not present, this consisted of an
increase to operating expenditures, an increase to capital expenditures. And the more sizable portion was
the reconciliation of a capital carry forward expenditure line item from 2021, which represented $62 million

of the increase, as well as an increase to the unrestricted fund, which does include the return of the RRIF
credit, risk premium, less the monies that RTD owes to the city and County of Denver for its portion of the
RRIF credit premium, and less advanced funding on the Eagle P3 project.
I just would like to highlight that after some discussion regarding the RRIF credit risk premium, a question
was asked by the Board as to whether Denver plans to contribute to Denver Union Station improvements,
which is how we'll be using our portion of the credit risk premium. While a partnership with the city and
County of Denver is expected, there are no details at this time to discuss.
The next action item was regarding the internal audit contract, which is on the agenda this evening. I had
the pleasure of presenting this item to the committee. This was for our General Manager and CEO to enter
into a contract with Reuben Brown for a base three years and two option years. After some discussion, an
Amendment was proposed by Director Cook and seconded by Director Guissinger to add language to clarify
that any amendments to the contract will come before the Board. This Amendment did pass with five ayes,
1 nay, and one absent.
And the main motion went on to pass unanimously. I'll echo a comment that I made at evening, which is
that if we are to pass the recommended action this evening, I highly recommend that our Ad Hoc Audit
Committee establishes at least a weekly cadence during one of the tasks with Reuben Brown, which is the
portion that is designed for us to form the actual or look at recommendations to form our Audit Committee.
I'll echo a comment by Second Vice Chair Catlin at the meeting, which is welcoming and encouraging
participation of all Board members during that weekly cadence.
I'll personally offer my time to any Board members who are unable to participate. I'd be happy to brief you
and also receive any feedback that you'd brought to the committee. Please certainly feel free to reach out.
Next, the committee went ahead and unanimously adopted to move forward on the Zero Fare Ozone Grant
Program, IGA. We voted unanimously to enter into an IGA with the Colorado Energy Office to the tune of
$2.2 million from the unrestricted fund, in accordance with Senate Bill 22180. Next, the committee received
a presentation regarding the formation of subregional councils as proposed by the RTD Accountability
Committee report. Of particular note during this discussion, which is not on the unanimous consent this
evening, was the matter of the subregional service council boundary options.
Staff briefed us that the working group did not have a consensus between the county-based approach, the
travel shed approach, and the service planning sectors. It was communicated to the committee that the
travel shed approach was generally accepted by the working group as a compromise. This consists of five
travel shed boundaries, which will be on our recommended action this evening, Southeast, Southwest,
Northeast, Northwest, and Boulder County. The committee did vote with five ayes, one nay, and one absent
to move forward with that recommended action.
Next, on recommended actions, the committee received a brief presentation on the city of Aurora
annexations to RTD. The committee voted unanimously to approve the revised boundary map, which
allocates a portion to District B, currently served by Director Lewis, and a portion of Director F, currently
served by Director Broom. The committee received a presentation on the system-wide Fair Study and
Equity analysis.
I certainly encourage those of you who weren't in attendance to check in on that update. It was very helpful.
We learned about the current progress and the status of our community engagement, which includes an

online survey that was completed in the formation of three feedback panels-- equity, pass programs, and
jurisdiction.
Finally, in other matters, Director Broom raised the concerns about the potential for an economic recession
and highlighted the importance of RTD to prepare for the possibility of declining revenues, while
simultaneously facing rising costs and expenses. I would add to that risk, this is particularly salient, as we
face the threat of the TABOR ratchet down effect, that we were just speaking about that we face at the
expiration of the TREX bonds in 2024. With that, I'm happy to answer questions or provide further context.
And Mr Chair, in particular, I'm happy to comment further on the internal audit contract recommended action
that the appropriate time and at your pleasure if needed during that portion. That concludes my report, Mr
Chair. Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much, Chair Davidson. Are there any questions for Chair Davidson about
the report. Great. And there may be some questions when we get to that topic in the agenda.
Next is the Operations and Safety Committee Report. Committee Chair Rosenthal, do you have anything
to report?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure, and thank you, Mr Chair. A couple items of note-- so first of all, of five members
of our committee, four were present and one was excused. And so, two issues that you will also see tonight- one is on the unanimous consent calendar. And that deals with the CAD AVL software support contract.
And as members have seen in the agenda, it is for five years software support with five additional one-year
options. So this would be for that contract.
And then the other item was is a recommended action for Allied Universal Security services. That is a
contract continuing with them. And so obviously, members will also be able to review that tonight. Both
actions passed unanimously. And as I said, they're up tonight.
And so, by the way, besides those members of the committee being present, also various members who
are not on the committee were also present that night. That's all I got. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you, Chair Rosenthal. Any questions for Chair Rosenthal? We'll have the
Allied matter coming up on recommended action later in the agenda.
Next, we'll move on to the Performance Committee. I don't believe Chair Lewis is present. Vice Chair
Dishell, do you have anything to report?
BOBBY DISHELL: Sure. Thank you so much, Chair Buzek. The Performance Committee met on June 1st.
Our next meeting is on July 13, 17, whichever is the Wednesday, 13. At our last meeting, we got an update
on the strategic plan. We sort of did a quick review of the General Manager's contract.
In light of our strategic plan update, we received an update on the GM CEO's compensation analysis to
make sure that we are remaining competitive when it comes to that. The Board briefly discussed 360
performance reviews. And really, the intent behind that discussion, which I welcome feedback from others
on is, our General Manager's ability to perform it's also driven by the Board's performance.
And that is not only a time taken from the General Manager-- there's 15 of us. So if she spent an hour with
each of us every week, which I hope she doesn't do, and I don't think she does, but that's 15 hours. And so
the Board really being high functioning, not only from our own perspective, but from the perspective of staff,

is critical to the General Manager being able to perform at her best. And also similarly, if we're giving
inconsistent direction as a Board and staff feel like we're giving inconsistent direction, that impacts their
ability to perform to meet the goals outlined in our strategic plan.
And I know full well that as Director Buzek often says, well, they only need one opinion. They only need to
be one of us. But I think focusing on Board performance in the way in which we do or don't interact with
staff, is great. And welcome any comments or thoughts that folks might have on ways to really align more
work performance and more tasks so that our staff, our General Manager can receive and then delegate to
her staff, consistent direct feedback, as well as making sure that we are helping keep her schedule open
to do the task that we've asked her to do, which is run a pretty sizable agency.
And so if you have thoughts on that, please feel free to email me. Otherwise, you're welcome to come hang
out on July 16, whatever that Wednesday is again. It's the second Wednesday of the month. And look
forward to hearing folks. Happy to take questions or thoughts people may have.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that report. Are there any questions for Director Dishell? Nope? I see
none. Everybody should, to the extent you can, come on to the Performance Committee and listen in and
participate. It's interesting stuff.
So we're going to move on to the approval of the Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board
and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from any Directors?
OK, seeing none, unless there's an objection, we're going to consider these minutes all at the same time.
And I need a motion to approve the following minutes-- May 24, 2022 Board meeting, June 1, 2022
Performance Committee, June 7, 2022 Study Session, June 14, 2022 Finance and Planning Committee,
June 15, 2022 Study Session, June 15, 2022 Operations and Safety Committee, and the June 23, 2022
Executive Committee. Do I have a motion to approve?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved Director Williams.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams is the movement. And Director Davidson is the second. And we'll take
the vote. Are there any no votes? Seeing none, that passes 14 yes votes and one absent.
I'm sorry. I didn't call for any discussion on it. Seeing as how nobody voted no, presuming there's no
discussion. My apologies.
Next, we'll move on to the Chair's Report. Just a brief recap on the Executive Committee-- we had a number
of discussion items. A lot of them revolved around changes to some operating documents from the Board
Governance Manual to potential changes to bylaws. So the Executive Committee is looking at a number of
things.
A lot of it is cleanup of things that we have in our organizational documents. Some of it is duplicative. Some
of it is outdated. But nonetheless, they still live in the binder that everybody gets.
So we're working on that. Directors Guissinger and Sloan are kind of taking a lead on some of that stuff.
We also had a discussion about the revised delegation of authority, which we hope to have coming before
the Executive Committee and the Board next month for approval. And we also talked about a timeline and
recruitment process for the Board Office Executive Manager, who is currently Ms. Barbara McManus.

So those discussions are ongoing and fluid. So we're moving that stuff forward. I'm also going to take a
moment now to announce the formation of another Ad Hoc committee. This is the Zero Emission Vehicle
Ad Hoc Committee. We had a study session that GM CEO Johnson put together and Mr Worthen was our
presenter. And we got some fantastic information about the implementation, integration of zero emission
vehicles into the system and what that looks like and what the challenges are.
And I want this committee to take a look at a lot of these things. And I want RTD hopefully, to not be the
agency that sits back and waits for others to act, but takes a commanding lead nationwide in helping
develop these policies. So the charge to this Ad Hoc committee is to study and inform the Board regarding
current developments on zero emission vehicle technology, and to recommend policy on implementation
and integration of zero emission vehicle technology into RTD system and any other matters relating to the
same.
With that committee and its charge, I have asked and delightfully have received acknowledgments from the
following Directors who will serve on this committee-- They are Directors Bouquet, Dishell, Guissinger, and
Williams. And to start, I'm going to ask Director Guissinger be the contact point, at least initially, to start the
cadence of meetings going forward. So you guys can then, discuss with Director Guissinger and amongst
yourselves, what that cadence looks like and what you are wanting to get done. So with that said, any
members of this committee have anything that they'd like to add?
No? Good. Get to work then. So we got some interesting stuff. I think coming in. And I hope that RTD can
be a leader in this area.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Mr. Chair? Rosenthal, here. If you could include me on that. If you don't mind,
including me on that, I'd appreciate it. I'm Just finding out about it now, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, sorry. Sure thing. Next is the General Manager's Report. General Manager Johnson,
can you please share with us, your report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr Chair. And Good evening to you Board members and
to all that are virtually assembled. I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO of RTD. This evening, I
will share with you the following information centered around our strategic priorities.
Speaking to community value, I will discuss communications with elections officials regarding Zero Fare
Transit days, to enhance access to polling places, as well as ballot box placement for the 2022 General
election. Additionally, I'll speak about the engagements I have had and other external meetings regarding
both the community value and customer excellence strategic priorities. I will speak to staff's efforts to
prepare for RTD Zero Fare Initiative in August of this year, the agency's e-bike policy as well, and lastly,
employee ownership.
I will provide an update on COVID 19-pandemic responses, as well as division barbecues. So as relates to
community value, and more specifically the Zero Fare Transit proposal that was brought forward by Director
Bouquet, Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer and General Counsel Snyder have been
coordinating with the County Clerks Association and the Secretary of State's office, on the Board's proposal
to provide zero fare transit in conjunction with the November 2022 General election. Feedback has been
positive from both the Clerks and the Secretary of State's office.
A tentative suggestion from the clerks that will be further discussed on Thursday, July 7th when the meeting
will take place amongst the parties and presented to the Board is to consider zero fare for the National Vote

Early Date, which is Friday October, 28, to promote and encourage early voting, as well as the General
election on November 8. Included in the discussion will be clear information regarding the existing process
in place for counties to partner with RTD and place voter drop boxes on RTD property.
On Wednesday May 25, I participated in a Nine Listens session at the Trinity United Methodist Church.
These events were created by 9news as an opportunity for local news journalists and anchors to listen and
to work to understand the needs of the community through storytelling and to connect community members
and leaders with journalists to share future issues or stories. The session in which I was invited to speak
was intentionally scheduled to coincide with the anniversary of George Floyd's murder and serve as an
opportunity for myself and other leaders of color in the community to reflect and engage in dialogue about
race and equity in current affairs.
That same day, I along with you, Mr Chair, and the Metro Mayors Caucus, we engaged in a joint meeting
entitled, Rebuilding Ridership. This engagement was one in a series of 90 to 120 minutes that will serve as
in-depth briefing and strategy sessions on separate topics to educate and inform those regarding the
challenges RTD is facing and the strategies being pursued to address said challenges. Another goal of this
meeting series is to clearly establish lines of communication between RTD and the Metro Mayors Caucus
and identify areas where the caucus can't support, collaborate, or innovate with RTD to strengthen our
Regional Transportation Network.
Topics of discussion in this meeting included zero fare for better air planing efforts, RTD's people power
problems, security, service reliability, as well. On Thursday May 26, I, along with Directors Rivera-Malpiede,
Dishell, and Sloan, and senior RTD leaders participated in Transportation Solutions 17th Annual The Road
Ahead event at the Denver Botanic Gardens. This annual seminar combines essential social, economic,
and transit issues to seek mutually beneficial solutions and attracts a variety of different communities,
including elected officials, policymakers, private developers, and transportation industry leaders. The
subject matter at hand in which we had our key speaker focused on some elements in which the city of
Chicago was focused on in reference to equity issues, specifically focused on the BIPOC community and
about leveraging transportation equity in that space.
I, along with Director Whitmore and Government Relations Officer Michael Davies addressed the Brighton
City Council during the council's monthly Study Session on Tuesday, May 31. Among other topics discussed
with the council was RTD's role as a regional service provider, service standards, potential service
enhancement, and the city's aspirations of serving as mobility hub in the northeast sector of the district. The
city council was most appreciative of the opportunity for direct communication and came away from the
discussion with a better understanding of RTD services and potential partnership opportunities.
On Wednesday, June 1, I engaged with the Byrne Society and a wide ranging discussion about the general
state and direction of RTD transit-oriented development and real estate. The Byrne Society is affiliated with
the Byrne School of Real Estate and Construction Management and the University of Denver's Daniel
School of Business. The society is an invitation-only group of business leaders, connected with real estate
and related areas, who invite a variety of discussion leaders to participate with a think tank approach
regarding pertinent issues. Members include former RTD Director Bill James, MDC Holdings CEO Larry
Mizell, and DU professor and real estate expert, Doctor Mark Lee Levine among many others.
Between Friday, June 3 and Monday June 6, 2022 I travelled to San Diego to participate over the weekend
in committee meetings associated with the American Public Transportation Association, specifically the
Board of Directors meeting, as well as the APTA foundation meeting on Sunday. On Wednesday, June 8,
I visited the Aurora Rotary Club, of which Director Broom is a member, to discuss the agency's past,

present, and future and presented information regarding the strategic plan, what's happening with RTD, as
relates to our people power, restoring a welcoming transit environment, and the agency's commitment to
environmental stewardship and sustainability.
Moving back to Denver, Denver Streets partnership hosted the Denver Streets for People Summit at the
History Colorado Center on Thursday, June 9th, in which I participated as a panelist, along with Kayleigh
Gates, who's a Community Resource Outreach Administrator for the Denver Public Library, Lisa Raville,
the Executive Director of the Harm Reduction Center, and Carleigh Sailon from the Support Team Assisted
Response or STAR program. The panel's discussion was moderated by Denver Streets Partnership Policy
Director, Molly McKinley, and focused on the concept of public space in Denver, the policies and
philosophies surrounding people's use of and access to that space. And more specifically, we really delved
into the societal issues that are plaguing public spaces as a whole and the impact that has on public transit
since we're interwoven in the community. I'd like to Thank Directors Guissinger and Sloan for attending that
event.
And on Wednesday, June 15, I participated in an interview with leadership APTA. The purpose of the
discussion was to capture insights from industry leaders who have driven the change toward zero emission
bus and rail systems. Specifically, I was asked and able to provide insight about RTD's venture into this
area, as well as lessons learned during my previous tenure with transit agencies in California regarding the
decision making that led to the adoption of zero emission buses, as well as the management of relationships
with disparate partners and stakeholders that played a role in the successful deployment of those zero
emission vehicles.
Regarding internal efforts to prepare for Zero Fare August, which comes under the auspices of our priorities
of community value and customer excellence, staff is gearing up for RTD's Zero Fare for Better Air
campaign, which is the program's official moniker. Teams have been preparing an abundance of marketing
materials and will hold briefings with ATU, local 10-01, Denver Transit operators. Additionally, we are going
to leverage partner resource kits, which will include logos for the Zero Fare for Better Air, news release, enewsletters, trans-related photos, and key messages, and templates included for those print ad, social
media flyers, and other communications.
Staff will be invited to attend a Facts and Snack session earlier this month. Earlier this month, I meant to
say early in July, July 11th to be specific, to learn more about the program. And at the conclusion of my GM
report that will just in a couple of minutes, I will yield the floor to Steven Brier, who's the Senior Manager of
Marketing to provide more information and showcase to you the collateral that they have worked diligently
on in preparing.
Regarding the grant program implementation efforts for our initiative in August, the deadline for the grant
application is July 7. Staff has been working diligently to develop the grant application and will have it
submitted to the Energy Office for consideration on or before the deadline. The Energy Office has
committed to responding on a ruling basis by July 14, at which point RTD and the Energy Office will work
to complete the Intergovernmental Agreement, which is on the agenda for your consideration this evening
to seek reimbursement of grant funding after the implementation of the Zero Fare for Better Air.
Moving to our e-bike policy, as previously noted during the June 7th study session that was had regarding
low and no-emission vehicles, as well as a subsequent memorandum that I transmitted to the Board, for
the agency's current bike and ride policy, motorized bicycles including e-bikes and electric scooters are
currently and expressly prohibited from bus and trains. The original intent of the policy was to prevent
customers from taking personal vehicles powered by internal combustion engines, such as mopeds and

scooters onto revenue vehicles, and to prevent heavy personal vehicles from being loaded onto and
possibly damaging bike racks.
This policy was implemented prior to the advent of the newer generation of smaller, lighter e-bikes and
electric scooters currently available on the market. Staff is currently working, which consists of a cross
section of divisions and departments on a revised Bike and Ride policy that will allow electric conveyances
up to 55 pounds. And that would prohibit customers from boarding light rail vehicles with them via the high
blocks. I anticipate reviewing and conferring with staff, subject matter teams on a path forward in the next
two weeks.
Moving on to the strategic priority of employee ownership, as with many surrounding states, Colorado is in
the midst of another surge in COVID-19 cases, with a current statewide seven-day average case rate in
excess of 250 per 100,000 people. Colorado ranked sixth highest among states in the contiguous US.
Moreover, this once again, is a matter of statewide concern as health data as of the week of June 19
through the 25 showed that all but eight of Colorado's 64 counties are experiencing a high rate of community
transmission primarily, due to the BA.2.12.1 subvariant.
Specifically, in the counties served by RTD, the seven-day rolling average of new cases ranges between
230 and 440, which mirrors levels experienced during the peak of the Delta variant's impact in November
of 2021. And recent vaccine developments of the Food and Drug Administration has now authorized the
Centers for Disease Control to provide vaccines for children as young as six months of age. And although
nearly 75% of eligible Coloradans are fully immunized via vaccine administration, hundreds of thousands
of people in the state and tens of millions of Americans overall have yet to see even an initial vaccination.
So with that, as before, the leadership team and I will continue to monitor health data and state and federal
guidance to determine whether additional revisions to masking, building capacity limitations, or other health
protocols are in order.
Then rounding out, I and members of the leadership team recently attended barbecues that were held two
weeks ago, during the week of June 6 to 10 at the Mariposa-Alotti operating divisions, the Rio Port
Maintenance of Way facility, and the 711 building, as well as earlier today, at the Platt Division and district
shops. As was the case, that the leadership team's participation and facility visits from both employee
survey in May 2022, employees expressed their sincere appreciation due to the recognition and presence
of a myriad of different folks throughout the agency, as well some of the senior leaders. And moreover,
these events have given us an informal opportunity to hear firsthand, the comments and concerns of the
agency's frontline employees, as well as those throughout the organization who make lives better through
connections.
Additional barbecues for East Metro, that was held yesterday. Platt was today. And there is one tomorrow
at the Boulder Operating Division. And with that, Chair Buzek, my comments are concluded. And I would
like to now, yield the floor to Steven Brier, the Senior Manager of marketing, to present the concepts for
Better Air for Zero Fare. So with that, Mr Brier. And when we're through, if there's any questions for me or
Mr Brier, we'll be happy to address those at that time. Thanks.
STEVEN BRIER: Thanks, General Manager Johnson. I definitely appreciate this time. And I just say thanks
to the Board and others in attendance to be able to share our plans for this program. We see this as a really
exciting program for the district and all of our citizens. And so I'll get right into that in just one second here.
So our program, as General Manager Johnson shared with you, is called Zero Fare for Better Air. And just
some highlights for that-- this is in support of Senate Bill 22-180, which is a grant-funded program through

the Colorado Energy Office. And we are happy to collaborate with our regional partners to promote this
program.
We plan to launch an integrated bilingual campaign. So that'll be English and Spanish. And that's going to
start next week. And it's going to go through August 22 of this year. And that's going to be a full media
program with current radio, terrestrial radio, as well as other types of things like out-of-home billboards and
those types of things. And again, we plan a pretty robust collaboration with our regional partners to make
sure that we can maximize the visibility and awareness of this program.
So the theme that we chose takes advantage of all of the Colorado iconic imagery that we all know and
love, which is our blue bird sky that we cherish 300 days a year. Our beloved Denver cityscape is one that
those partners in the Metro area will use. And we also have mountains and our visible night sky, at least
visible in most places throughout our state.
Our internal campaign, as General Manager Johnson shared, will include our public information displays
throughout our facilities, our intranet, which we call The Hub, our newsletter, and lots of other things,
including Facts and Snacks and other things. We want to make sure that everyone has a chance to
understand what this is, and to be able to figure out a way that they can participate and help push this really
amazing program.
A lot of the external campaign elements will include, as I said, on vehicle, it'll be in our public information
displays throughout not just the facilities, but our stations and such. We will also take advantage of the
displays on the front of vehicles. We're going to have, like I said, streaming radio billboards and a lot more
coming up.
This is an example of our print ad that we will be running, as well as the Spanish version of that ad. We're
really excited to have this thing really kind of touching all parts of our district. We also have social media
campaigns. This is kind of an example of, if you use Instagram, one of the carousels this will animate. And
so it'll first show Zero Fare for Better Air. And then it'll show a bus. And then a train will go by, and then it'll
pay it off at the end.
The planned rollout, tonight is the first part of that. But we also have a lot of communications going internally,
externally, as well as the partner collaborations. And those meetings will be starting tomorrow morning. And
then all of the materials that we provide to them will be available tomorrow on our website.
Next, I'll talk a little bit about the collaboration meetings that we're going to have. We're going to talk on the
29th and 30th, to just a whole host of our partners-- the Metro Mayors Caucus, a lot of the PIOs that will
help us push this out, Dr. Cog, our transit marketing organizations, and the schools. Anyone who really has
some reach that can amplify this message out, we're reaching out to them and inviting them to collaborate
with us on this.
We will speak with our union partners here as well. We have a tentative meeting scheduled on the 30th.
Most likely, that will happen. We are just waiting for a couple of confirmations on attendees. DTO and DTP
briefing will happen on that same day. And then on the week of July 11, we will start the internal
communication so that everyone knows what is coming up and how to participate.
This is just basically a visual timeline, just so you kind of get a sense of how this will roll out. We will have
partner tool kits available in the morning, all those orientations next week. And then we start the campaign

that week, actually next week, and just keep that campaign going, like I said, through August 22. Then it'll
taper off toward the end of the month.
And that concludes my briefing. And if there are no questions, I'll yield the floor back to General Manager
Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr Brier, appreciate your report. And if you wouldn't mind taking
down your presentation, I will then turn it over to the Chair to facilitate any questions individuals may have
about my presentation or what you showcased as well. So thank you so much for that.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks Mr Brier Thanks GM/CEO Johnson. We'll take questions either for Mr. Brier
or for GM/CEO Johnson on her report. And I see Director Kate Williams has her hand up Go right ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you so much, Chair. And thank you General Manager for your rough-- you had a
rough month and a lot of social presence in the community, which is really great. We really appreciate that.
Mr Brier, I have been collecting contact information for a variety of people in District A, who are extremely
interested in having media to share on this. And so I'm assuming that you're going to handle the people I
have already sent in.
STEVEN BRIER: Yes, of course.
KATE WILLIAMS: If you are encouraging the other Directors to give you people that they would like-- I did
not hear you say, "ladies and gentlemen of the Board, please send me contact information so that I can get
this stuff out to people." And so I'm asking if you would like to say that now.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I would absolutely like to say that. So ladies and gentlemen of the Board, if you
have other folks that you'd like to participate in this, please send those contacts to me. And if we need to
set up a special session-- I know these are starting tomorrow-- we're happy to do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. That's all I had. Thank you, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. And this is a team effort. And we are team RTD. So yeah,
anybody on the Board that has information that they'd like to get to Mr Brier who might benefit from these
packets please send that info him. Great. Director Dishell, you're next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much Thank you, General Manager and Mr Brier for your presentations.
I have two questions. One is about our-- I know we just had a presentation-- Zero Fare for Better Air, which
is I'm starting to hear a lot of concerns from community members around safety. And is there going to be
increased messaging for folks who are new to our system on things like Transit Watch app or See
Something, Say Something. And what's being done to help ensure the safety, as well of our frontline
employees, whether those are the folks opening up Union Station or on our buses, turnarounds, just curious
on how we're handling maybe less exciting part of the reality here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, if I may Mr Chair, if I can address Director Dishell'sVINCE BUZEK: Yes, please do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so thank you very much, Director Dishell. And through the course of
conversations that we've had, I think most Board members as well as staff, we do have some trepidation

and angst as it relates to that aspect of this campaign, outside of that just generally in reference to what's
happening at transit agencies across America. So to that extent, we are having briefings.
I actually participated in an Executive Board meeting with ATU, where we talked about some of these
elements as well, what we can do collectively about how we will report any incidents that frontline
employees would share with us. That's why we're having the internal communications campaign, i.e. Facts
and Snacks to brief them to let them know what mechanisms can be utilized.
In the course of our campaign, we are also sharing as a form of messaging, that we ask people to be
respectful and kind to our frontline employees. More specifically, I'm going to ask interim Chief Martingano
if he could come on camera, because he is working in partnership with Denver police and other metropolitan
law enforcement entities as we look at this holistically. So interim Chief Martingano, if you could speak to
that aspect of the security, I would greatly appreciate it sir.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Oh, yeah, ma'am. So I actually have been reaching out. We have meetings that
are being set up, especially with jurisdictions, police jurisdictions, that encompass the end of the line. That's
an area that we had experienced some issues in the past in relation to people maybe just riding with no
destination.
So we have meetings with Lone Tree Police Department, Littleton, Jefferson County, Golden, as well as
DIA, which is in the line on the A-line. So we are continuing talking about efforts, how to get the message
out, how to come quickly to situations, and the importance of public transportation, especially that month,
and how to best educate and communicate to the constituents that live within their police jurisdictions on
the purpose of what this month is about and just making sure that the police officers are going to be more
of an educational approach when they come to these calls the service, on how to explain to people on how
to maybe take the trains back or the buses back to certain locations, and really work on the outreach and
education as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, thank you. And just one follow-up somewhat related question if I may, which is I
think certainly kudos to our bus and rail ops teams, who are running at a workforce that's sort of 10% to
20% vacancy rates. I don't think any of us, when you're 1 in 5 to 1 in 10 folks of your coworkers missing,
it's a tough spot to be in.
So my question is are we set up for a service delivery standpoint, given the vacancies we have, comments
we've been hearing? I know that there's some actions coming forward that'll help with the second crew
member issue. But are we set up to be successful? And do we have sort of workforce development
programs with community college or four-year colleges or high schools? And how are we, whether we're
back filling vacancies-- it's sort of a two-part. What are we doing on workforce development, which is related
to are we going to be able to deliver the service we need to given the increase in demand and the amount
of vacancies we have? And I know I'm asking you to look in a crystal ball.
STEVEN BRIER: CEO Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. And I appreciate the question, Director Dishell. And as we look
at our vacancy rate, it's not just about frontline employees. I probably sound like a broken record. If you
follow industry news, several transit agencies around the country have reduced their service due to the fact
that they too are having people power problems.

So as we go forward, aside from August just holistically, we have been trying to message to manage
people's expectations. So when we go for it in August we are not going to magically have a plethora of
additional people that we created. We do collectively have recruitment efforts underway. When we talk
about workforce development and things of the like, we do have programs in place with local community
colleges that were suspended as it relates to the COVID pandemic.
More so, as we look to go forward, I can tell you that we have been recruiting individuals. Just today there
was a graduation whereby we now have some conductors that will be used on in line as opposed to a
second crew member. So it's incremental steps. Things aren't going to happen overnight. But I feel really
confident, I shared with Chair Buzek just today, that I met someone new in the hallway that just started last
week.
When I was out at Platt Division, I engaged with a myriad of employees. And I said, "when did you start?"
A couple of gentlemen, somebody said, I started last month, I started three weeks ago, I've been here for
three months. So we are hiring. So our efforts are yielding some benefits. Not to the extent that we would
hope. But I believe it fits the nature of the beast in reference to the environment in which we're in.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Thanks Director Dishell. First Vice Chair Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much. And thanks for all of that information. I think that answered some
of my questions.
In terms of marketing, I guess a couple of comments. I think the pieces look really good. I have had the
opportunity to talk with a couple of groups where I was talking about this. And two of the questions that
come up more than once are, is it the whole system? Is it just the trains, or is it just the buses? And is it the
whole Month
And I know we say, August 2022. But that's just something to keep in mind, Mr Brier, as you move this
forward. And I see Miss Sapecki here too, that I do hear that question others may, that to include that where
we can.
And I also appreciate just the statement. And I know there's much more to it. But your statement, Ms
Johnson, that we will be reminding people to be kind and respectful to the operators. Because when I get
off the bus, I hear lots of people saying, thank you and being respectful. But just reminding them., I think,
it's a good thing. So thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Chair Buzek? Just for everyone's edification, since you did broach it Director
Guissinger, thank you for your comments. for those that are eligible participants for Access-a-Ride, it's all
services provided as well. So I appreciate your comments in reference to the messaging.
Because Mr Brier and Ms Sapecki, when we met, they've incorporated that into the key messages and into
the partnership portal as well. So everybody has an understanding. So thank you for broaching that.
Because we did not convey that during the course of this presentation, so Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that. Director Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr Chair. And thank you for the presentation. I think that the
marketing materials look pretty amazing. Are they available in Spanish as well? I didn't see any Spanish
prototypes. So that's my first question.
STEVEN BRIER: Chair Buzek, if I can answer the question?
VINCE BUZEK: You bet, Mr. Brier. Go right ahead.
STEVEN BRIER: Thank you. Yes, these are all available. They will all be available in Spanish. And there
was one ad that I showed. There was an English and then a Spanish right next to it. So it was just one
reference to that. But yes, those will be available in Spanish.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. And Mr. Chair, my second thing is a comment on following up
with Director Dishell. And that is that I sign up for Next Ride on all of my routes. I do it all the time. And this
morning, both my routes were canceled due to no operator availability.
And I'm really concerned about that in terms as we're launching off this Zero Fare Better Air in August,
trying to get people out of their cars and onto transit. But if we're going to be canceling because of the lack
of operators, somehow we need to convey how many operators we have and where we're going to have
reliable service. Because I think that'll be a huge issue for us as an agency in terms of the whole mission
of getting people out of their cars. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thanks. Kind of following up on all of that, I don't know who I was listening in when
Matt Appelbaum was talking. But one area that he suggested that CAC might be able to help in was
outreach, with residents and riders and so forth. So I don't know if that would fit into your plan, but just
wanted to raise that as food for thought to the extent we have people in busy places and on especially busy
days, providing information about routes or able to help people in the case of a cancelation or to find an
alternative route.
Then I don't know whether or not that would be a good match or not. But I just wanted to raise that as a
possibility, seeing if the CAC members could help out. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for those comments. Anybody else? And thanks, Mr Brier, for the
presentation. GM/CEO Johnson and I met a couple of times Metro Mayors Caucus. And Dirctor Dishell,
your question came up specifically.
And we do have challenges. And there's no doubt about it. But every public transit agency in the country
does. So we will not probably be providing perfect service. But we're going to be providing the very best
service that we can. And those challenges are going to be with us until we get our operators and so forth
up to speed and then on board.
So we are eager and ready to meet the challenge. I know that. And GM/CEO Johnson has done great work
in that regard. And GM/CEO Johnson., I also want to say Thanks for your willingness to go out into the
community with Directors and meet with their city councils and things like that. It's a big help. So thanks for
that as well.
Now I'm going to move on to the public hearing of the 2022 amended budget. I'm going to hereby call to
order, the public hearing on the Regional Transportation District Amendment to the adopted budget for the

year 2022. In accordance with both RTD's requirements and local government statutes, notice of the public
hearing was duly posted in the Office of the Executive Manager to the Board of Directors. The notice is
published in two major daily newspapers of the district prior to this meeting and on the RTD website.
This public hearing will be conducted under the rules and regulations for public hearings, adopted by the
Board of Directors for the Regional Transportation District. And a copy of those rules will be a part of the
record in this hearing. I would like to point out that the testimony will be limited to the subject of the public
hearing. And presentations of testimony should be no longer than three minutes.
Written testimony should be emailed to the Board Office at RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com for
distribution to the Board. The 2022 amended budget was included in the electronic packet for the Board
and the public to review. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. And they will have
up to three minutes to provide their comments. Ms McManus, has anybody indicated willingness or
eagerness to speak?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see one hand up in the queue. I see Paolo Solorzano.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, Mr Solorzano, would you like to speak?
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Yeah. Can you guys all hear me? I didn't think I would be able to speak.
VINCE BUZEK: We can.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Yeah, I appreciate all this. It's great to hear this. But I think we just need to work on
the signage.
For example, the A-Line, I think three weeks ago, it was known that the the A-Line was not going to show
up. But the signage was not showing people to go the right way. And yeah, again, I'll say that we went out
there and weVINCE BUZEK: Mr. Solorzano, I'm going to stop you here. And you're repeating your comments from
before. And the public hearing right now is strictly for the 2022 amended budget. So if you have comments
related directly to the 2022 amended budget, we'd love to hear those.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Yeah, absolutely. And I'll keep on going out to the streets and doing this. Is like
yeah, if RTD does not urgently create or actually get actual on-time schedules out there then, yeah, you're
going to be on a lot of trouble.
The people will never trust you guys. And there's no use in talking about any budgets or anything. This
makes a lot of money wasted. And especially again, I'll keep on bringing this up. Because if you guys don't
do this, then then it's going to be it's going to be a disaster.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for comments Mr. Solorzano. Ms McManus, are there any other speakers in the
queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There are no other speakers in the queue.
VINCE BUZEK: With no other speakers in the queue, I will close the public hearing for the 2022 amended
budget at this time. I'm going to need a motion for Board of Directors to adopt resolution number blank

series of 2022 to amend and appropriate funds to increase 2022 amended budget by 79.7 million to
$2.105.5 billion. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Catlin is a second. Any discussion on this motion from any Director? Seeing none, I'll call
for the vote. Do we have any no votes on this mattee? Seeing none, we have 14 yes votes and no votes,
and one absence, so the motion passes.
Next, we're going to move on to the Unanimous Consent agenda. There are four items on the Unanimous
Consent agenda listed under Item 17, Roman 17, as actions B through E. These items are 2021 Annual
Comprehensive Financial Report and Report to Governance, Zero Fare Ozone Grant Program
Intergovernmental Agreement, IGA, City of Aurora Annexations, Innovations and Transportation Inc, INIT,
CAD/AVL Software Support Contract.
If anyone has a change to or has questions on any of these items, please feel free to advise me at this time.
And I will, of course, be happy to pull this from the consent agenda for further discussion. Any member of
the Board of Directors want any of these pulled from the agenda? Seeing none, I need a motion to approve
the Consent Agenda at this time.
BOB BROOM: So moved.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
VINCE BUZEK: I have Broom as the movement and Rosenthal as the second. Are there any no votes on
these matters? Seeing none, they all passed by a vote of 14 yes, 0 nos and one absence.
We're going to move on to Recommended Actions. Tonight we have five recommended actions-- Roman
18 Actions F through J. And just for the Board to before we go into this, we are not going to have staff
presentations on any of these, except for the Allied Universal Security Contract. We're going to have a brief
staff presentation prior to taking the vote.
So I'm going to start with the first Recommended Action. And that is the Internal Audit Contract. I need a
motion for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into
a contract with Reuben Brown LLC for internal audit services for three base years and two option years,
with a total not to exceed contract value of $3,212,106, and to exclude from the 2022 delegation of authority
and the Board to the General Manager any amendments to such contract. Do I have motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Davidson.
VINCE BUZEK: Dishell is the movement. And Davidson is the second. Is there any discussion on this
matter? Seeing none, I'll now call for a vote. Are there any no votes on this matter? And that's great. This
motion passes with 14 yes votes, no no votes, and one absence.
Next, I'm going to need a motion for the Board of Directors to adopt the recommendation of the Subregional
Service Council Working Group as detailed here and at the direct staff to form subregional service councils,

consistent with the 2021 agency response to the RTD Accountability Committee Final Report. Do I have a
motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: And a second by Whitmore. Is there any discussion on this matter? Director Dishell, go
right ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Just for clarity, are we doing the travel shed? Which of the three options are we doing?
Or are we passing a motion to have someone else choose which of the three options for choosing?
VINCE BUZEK: GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Dishell. I do see Mr Van Meter. You want to take
this, Mr Van Meter, instead of me? Please feel free. You guys have been working on it.
BILL VAN METER: Sure, Thank you GM/CEO Johnson. This is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. And the
simple and direct answer is the travel shed is the recommended approach, the travel shed geographies.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that response. Director Dishell, does take care of your questions?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yep.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect, thanks. Any further discussion on this matter? Second Vice Chair Catlin, go right
ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair. I just wanted to state for the record that travel patterns have shifted
incredibly in the last couple of decades particularly. And I would hope that we have some flexibility after
establishing these initial sheds that we can adjust as necessary as the travel patterns and commuting
patterns adjust. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. It will be interesting to see how it all shakes out. Any other
further discussion?
We'll take the vote now. Are there any no votes on this matter? Seeing none, this passes with 14 yes votes,
no no votes, and one absence.
Next, we're going to have the Allied Universal Security Services Contract option. I will need a motion for
the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO GM/CEO or her designee to execute
the first option year of the existing security services contract with Allied Universal for a total contract cost,
not to exceed $20,296,083. Do I have a motion? [INTERPOSING VOICES]
I've got Tisdale as a movement. And Cook is the second. And GM/CEO Johnson, do we have a brief
presentation on this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes sir, we do. I will yield the floor to Interim Chief Martingano to present that quick,
or not quick. I should say succinct report. Sorry.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much. And Chief, please go right ahead.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Thanks to you, GM Debra Johnson. So on July 11, 2019, following a
comprehensive procurement process, Allied Universal was awarded a three-year contract with three oneyear options to provide system wide security services. The initial contract term expires on June 30 2022.
And the recommended action is for the first option year to begin on July 1st, 2022, which would then end
of June 30, 2023.
The total contract savings with some of the changes that we made to the first option year would be a budget
cost savings of $3.7 million. The contract would be for 11,154 hours, which actually would be for 11,882
hours till November 1st because Allied will be assisting us as we do the transition on the N-Line to RTD
conductors.
After November 1st, the contract hours will drop to 11,154 weekly. 4,311 of those will be a unarmed position
within the contract. And thank you. Any questions?
VINCE BUZEK: Great, Director Dishell, did you have anything?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I saw a Director Broom was up first if, he wants toVINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. Director Broom, go right ahead.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I was going to ask, are they fully staffed? Or do they have a large group
of vacancies that they're bringing forward to this new contract?
STEVE MARTINGANO: Chair, if I can answer it?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please do, Chief.
STEVE MARTINGANO: So as of this past Friday, they have an authorized strength of 293 personnel. They
are actually at 246 as of this past Friday's updated hiring list. They go Friday to Friday is their pay period.
So every Friday, they update us in regards to how many personnel are in there on their weekly payroll list.
So there are 246, which gives it a vacancy of approximately 16% currently.
This was a couple of months ago. We were at almost 30% regularly every week. So they have done some
great strides in regards to hiring. They have been able to bring a lot of individuals from different accounts
over to RTD to try to bring that vacancy rate down. The unarmed positions, it would be a total of 105 if the
contract would go into full effect July 1st. Out of that 105, they are currently hiring for that with an anticipation
of the contract moving forward.
They are at a 12% vacancy rate for the unarmed positions. So they have currently 93 of the 105 currently
ready to go ahead and be deployed within the contract itself.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much. This sounds pretty good. I mean, we really don't have much option
here. Because if we turn this down, I don't know who you would get to come in and provide all of these
officers for this, for our needs.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom. Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I just wanted to offer a few comments. But I want to start out Chief and GM
Johnson, I know you guys have done a complete overhaul and continue to do incredible work. And at the
same time, safety and security issues have got, I think, anecdotally worse, not better, while Allied Universal
has been retained to security.
And from my perspective, and granted I understand that the unhoused increased vandal use, all these
various issues are not just Allied Universal Security. But ultimately, I think when a contract is up and we've
seen safety and security be a top issue not just for customers, but for community members and for
operators, while we're renewing it with some modified scope or bottoms, a few changes, I just feel like it
would be more prudent to take the time to take a step back and have gone out, bid this out, and see what
came back, given that our safety and security needs have change since 2019. We live in a new world.
And so I stand opposed to renewing the contract. And while I know we're sort of making the best of what to
do and I also understand the reality that we need safety and security officers to show up to work on July
1st, if we all vote no, but I just want to raise this as a point in the matter of safety and security has gotten
more and more challenging, not just here, but across the country. It's a totally different world than it was in
2019 with the scope of work was drawn up. And it just seems like it would have been more prudent to build
that back out under a scope of work that more accurately reflects our safety and security needs today,
versus those of 2019.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments, Director Dishell. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, quick question-- Chief, I like the approach. I like what's underway. It looks like
we're making progress. So first of all, thank you for that.
And I wonder if as things loosen up-- it seems to me, I don't know if your statistics bear it out. But it seems
to me it's beneficial to have a second crew member on board a vehicle when things crop up. To the extent
you begin to redeploy your resources, do you contemplate putting some on board light rail and/or bus
routes, where we've had a high incidence of assaults or something like that? Is that something that we can
look forward to as workforce issues begin to ease up?
VINCE BUZEK: Chief, can you address that?
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yes, Chair. Yes, by putting the second crew member as an unarmed security
officer-- so again, they are going to be a security officer. They will have the same job descriptions as they
currently the arm. They will be checking fare. They will have the ability to write citations based off of noncompliance of fare. So we will not be losing any aspects of the job description there the only difference that
you will have between somebody that's currently on the train right now or after July 1st, would be obviously
the armed weapon on there.
What we are going to do. And we have already started doing in anticipation of hopefully this moving forward,
currently, our second crew member reserve positions are the armed officers that are standing on the
platforms. They wait there pretty much in anticipation of hopping on a train if something was to happen for
that current second crew member. Maybe they had to go to the bathroom, sickness, something of that
nature.
Since we will have the unarmed faction and we should have that staffed fully, that armed security officer
that usually stands static in platform, at the platform, the anticipation is they are going to actually ride trains
that every now and then and go to the different stops like 38 and Blake. And I'm just using the A-line as an

example, stop at 38th and Blake, maybe go off to Central Park. We will put him in a zone, and they will then
start looking at issues that we were experiencing maybe on platforms, the park and rides, maybe on the
elevator systems.
We were not able to do that currently with the model we had because the second crew member was not
able to get off the train at all because that train had to continue to run. So this model, what we are hoping
to see would be actually more security and more visibility and more presence at certain platforms that may
not have received as much security, visibility prior to July 1st.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes go, ahead Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: So are you able to contemplate moving toward light rail at all, on some routes or at times
of day when you have problems cropping up? Yes? And also maybe some bus routes?
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, I apologize, Director. I didn't know that part of your question. So by also
relieving some of the armed personnel that is currently assigned to the commuter rail, what our hope is,
especially as these numbers continue to decrease dramatically in regards to vacancy, we are going to
restart our Fair Enforcement team that was very successful during rush hours and businesses, to check
individuals for fare and be visible on the trains, as well as our bus team. We did have a security contingent
that would ride with our bus supervisors, go out, and work certain bus locations and bus stops that had
some issues.
So we are going to be able to fully staff that. They will then also be working with our impact teams that our
officers are currently on, to grow those impact teams to include security officers. So that we could cover
more areas. And like you said, Director, to be present for issues that our operators are experiencing.
SHELLEY COOK: Super. Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. For obvious reasons, I'm very much in support of
this resolution and renewing this contract under the option year to commence on Friday. And I just wanted
to drop a footnote that during other matters I would like to ask the Chief question relative to city and county
of Denver and enforcement activities because we've had issues raised in the past relative to the ability of
our security force to be able to write citations in Denver as opposed to in other jurisdictions.
That's a footnote. I'm not looking for an answer now. But I wanted you to know I'm going to come back to
that during other matters. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And I know for a fact he has an answer because I asked him
that same question. Any other discussion on this matter? I'm seeing none. Ms. McManus, I will ask you to
take a roll-call vote on this.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis? Absent. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY L WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm a yes, too.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. So we have-- go ahead.

VINCE BUZEK: We have 15 yes votes, and one no vote, and one absence, so that matter passes and
moves forward. Let's see what we're at now. Next, the fourth recommended action, is the RTD Citizen's
Advisory Committee appointments. And I will need a motion for the Board of Directors to reappoint two RTD
Citizen Advisory Committee CAC members to additional three-year terms, appoint four new members to
three-year terms, and appoint one new member to a two-year term. Do I have the motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet
VINCE BUZEK: I have Bouquet and Guissinger. So Bouquet, you're the mover, and Guissinger, you are
the second. Is there any discussion on this motion? I'm seeing none. Are there no-- are there any no votes?
I'm seeing none. This passes with 14 yes votes, zero no votes, and one absent.
Last is the approval of a proclamation for CRL associates, and I would like a motion for the Board of
Directors to approve the proclamation for CRL associates or their contributions made to the Regional
Transportation District. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moded.
RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: I heard Director Rivera-Malpiede and Tisdale as the second. Before I go on to discussion,
I would like to read the proclamation into the record. Whereas CRL associates served the agency from May
25 to June 2022 and whereas CRL associates has supported RTD as the agency worked to deliver the
voter-approved FasTracks transit expansion program while enhancing the public transportation system and
providing a framework for urban development throughout the system and whereas CRL associates has a
history of providing creative ideas for outreach and engagement as well as planning and support for
activities to inform and engage the public and key stakeholders.
CRL associates helped develop and implement the agency's first series of telephone town hall meetings
and managed and supported the agency's citizen's Advisory Committee and whereas CRL associates has
served as the local government liaison district since 2012.
Combining their practical experience with substantive knowledge in transportation policy and politics, they
developed and implemented an effective local government work plan to support the key objectives of the
entire agency, including strategic public outreach for the Denver Union Station project and whereas CRL
associates helped RTD bridge communication gaps, facilitated community consensus, and continued
support for the agency through very difficult times.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the RTD Board of Directors that we, the Board of Directors, hereby extend
our deepest gratitude to CRL associates for their many contributions to the agency and this board over their
17 years of service and recognize their steadfast dedication to RTD and its constituents.
And discussion? I see Director Tisdale. I'll recognize you first, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First, I would just note for the sake of the record
that on page 226 on the report it lists two representatives. It actually should list three. It's a director-initiated
item. And I note that Chair Buzek is one of the representatives, so his name should be added to that record.
Secondly, if I could vote yes 17 times, one for each year that they have provided services to us, I would do
that. But I'm happy to vote yes at least once. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, and we'll correct the record in that documentation. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, too, Buzek. I just want to say that CRL, and Roger Sherman in particular will
be missed, and that I also am appreciative of the resolution. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I, too, would like to take this opportunity to thank Roger
Sherman for his leadership and support. I go way back. The very first Citizens Advisory Committee I was
on. That's when I met Roger Sherman, and he has been a force to reckon with with CRL.
But during the pandemic, when we were scrambling-- and I do mean scrambling-- trying to figure out how
we were going to conduct our business as a board of directors in light of this horrible virus, it was Roger
who came up with the idea for us to go ahead and utilize the town hall meeting system. And that was
incredible for us, that we could continue our work as an agency to move forward.
So I want to just say thank you to CRL for your support, your innovation, and your flexibility in terms of
serving this region, and I personally want to just thank Roger Sherman for being such a great partner.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Second Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to echo those sentiments. I've had the privilege of working
with CRL in a number of different roles and capacities over the years, and although they've been formally
under contract with RTD since 2005, they certainly paved the way through some of their pro bono efforts
early on for enabling the FasTracks to pass through their campaign efforts.
I would like to thank them for their years of service to RTD and to the community as a whole, so thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And to echo the other Directors as well, it's been an honor and
a pleasure to work with not just Roger Sherman but everybody else at CRL. Also echoing other directors,
they've done not just what's on-the-job description for us but so much more for RTD and for our community.
So thank you. Good job to them, and thank you so much for all your service to us. Appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Rosenthal. Treasurer Whitmore?
TROY L WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. As we all know, on the Board our initiation studies, if you will,
by the Board Office and the senior staff are outstanding and really help us get to a point of knowledge to
do our duties in the beginning stages of our careers as board members.
But I certainly count the initiation assistance from Roger Sherman as a big part of that during my formative
years back four years ago. So I always appreciated his background as a former board member and his
connectedness throughout the Metroplex, and he's just one hell of a good guy, too. And we will certainly
miss him and his compatriots and appreciate their service for several decades to RTD. Job well done.

VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. Thank you for all those comments. At this point in time
I will take the vote. Are there any no votes on this matter. Seeing none, I count 13 votes plus 17 from
Director Tisdale for a total of 30. We got 14 yes votes, no no votes, and one absent for that one.
That takes care of the last of our recommended actions. We'll move on to report of director activities. Do
any directors wish to report on their activities? Treasurer Whitmore, I see your hand up. You're on mute,
sir.
TROY L WHITMORE: Thank you very much. I already said that, but I guess I'll say it again because it's
appropriate. I will ask Director Rosenthal to join in with any supplementary comments about the recent
activity that the two of us got to partake in, but I just want to mention that Director Rosenthal and I were
fortunate enough to attend the Accelerate Colorado conference in Washington, DC in the beginning days
of June.
And what a wonderful experience and enlightening experience, twofold. First of all, obviously, it's a bit of a
lobbying trip but kind of a knowledge-fest as we met with six of our seven congressional members-- I think
I got that number right, Director Rosenthal-- both senators, and then some representatives from economic
development, EPA, transportation, all very knowledgeable.
So that part is always good and important. But perhaps more important was the networking opportunity with
business leaders and elected leaders from throughout the Front Range, just a wonderful time to network,
and tell the RTD story, and to share with folks that we do know and those that we just met.
I would just say that it's a wonderful event and well worth our time and the taxpayer expense to get us to
that event and back home. So I'd just like to express my appreciation for that event and all that has come
from it. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Treasurer Whitmore. Thanks to you and Dr. Rosenthal for representing RTD
at that. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I recently had an opportunity to talk with an Aurora police officer who
responded to a call, and during the course of that conversation I asked him about how the staffing was on
their department.
And he indicated, of course, that they're way understaffed and they're having a hard time filling positions.
In fact, their most recent academy, which has 30 spots on it, only could-- they could only find seven people
to enroll and put through the rigorous course that that entails.
And of course, it takes a lot of people on the city police staff to run those academies, and for only seven
employees, that's not very productive. I don't know what the answer is as far-- because we're suffering from
the same problem. But somehow or other, we've got to find a way to attract more people to get into that
occupation. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just would like to take the opportunity once again
to remind all of the Directors that the APTA Transit Board members seminar will be held in Salt Lake City
July 30 through August 2. This is a seminar that has been planned and postponed since 2020, so we're
very happy that we're finally able to accept Salt Lake's hospitality for this great event.

And remember, Directors, that we have restored your travel budget, at least a portion of it, so you have the
opportunity to attend this very significant American Public Transportation Association meeting of people
like us, Transit Board members from across the country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: And thank you for that, and thanks for-- I know you play a huge role in putting this together.
And I think we're going to be pretty well-represented from RTD at this conference, so kudos to us. First Vice
Chair, Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Thank you, I'm looking forward to going to the Transit Board member
seminar, and I also appreciate Director Tisdale's work on that. I'm also very pleased to announce that I was
just appointed to the Regional Air Quality Council or the RAQC. I very much appreciate that appointment.
Thank you.
And we'll be following the very large footprints of Director Broom. I know he was on for several years. RTD,
I understand-- I haven't had a chance to speak with her but is very capably represented by Susan Wood
from our staff. So I do look forward, as I start to get oriented, to talking to her and learning from her. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, First Vice Chair Guissinger, and congratulations on that appointment. Director
Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I can find my mute button. Yeah, well, we were talking about some of the things
that we have been doing. I did two of the new Denver bus concourse Union Station trips with a really great
group of people. There were city council people, and TMA managers, and all kinds of local muckety-mucks
that were interested in what is going on in the bus concourse.
And so-- and I'd like to suggest to the rest of the Directors that not only do they get out to their local people
about the Zero Fare for Better Air but that they have the opportunity to take their constituents and their
peers on a really nice trip through the bus concourse to see what's going on and what's been done.
Director Rivera-Malpiede went with me the second time in, and we had some Bustang people there. And
she immediately asked them how they were doing with drivers, so that's kind of relevant to the conversation
we had earlier. Their primary answer was that most of their service does not require a CDL. They're running
little vans around a lot of the stuff that they're doing, and so that's their biggest problem.
They also noted that their bus drivers are driving long distances in a different kind of vehicle and don't have
people getting on and off in the city like we do, and so they felt like they were pretty different.
I also serve on the Sustainability Advisory Council for the city and county of Denver, and so we are looking
at a variety of ways to make the air better. Everybody is very, very excited about the Zero Fare for Better
Air. Boy, if I say it enough I'll get it.
And I serve on Denver's Streets Partners Advisory Council, and the Electric Vehicle Council and a variety
of stuff that have to do with climate activity. So I thank you all for helping to move our agency forward and
particularly to the Chair Buzek for putting that into a separate committee. And that's it for me for now maybe.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Williams. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And just to echo real quick, Director Whitmore-- it was an honor
and a pleasure to join him at the Accelerate conference in Washington and just only to add one more thing.
And any opportunity that we have, as directors, to interact particularly with our members of Congress and

to beg-- I mean ask for always additional funding to say, look, we do really put it to good use. And so you
know please do always keep us in mind.
And so as we plan for the future for this agency, always keeping them in mind, that they do work for us,
they work for our whole state, and we need to continue to keep them in mind to ask them for funding. But
they are definitely-- they were great to talk with, so thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, and Thanks again for your participation. I've received a text message from Director
Dishell indicating their entire office has lost power and he is now participating in our meeting as a participant
but indicated he didn't have anything to add at this point. But he is there and listening, and thank you,
Director Dishell, for making the effort to come back on.
I'm going to move on to other matters, and I know, Director Tisdale, I will recognize you first under other
matters.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and I go back to Chief Martingano relative to the
question that I raised earlier or at least alluded to earlier regarding our ability to cooperate with the city and
county of Denver as to the issuance of citations when we are within the city and county of Denver with a
somewhat cumbersome process, now having to call a DPD officer to the scene as opposed to our ability in
other jurisdictions where, presumably pursuant to an IGA, we're able to issue citations directly.
Can you give us an update on the answer you previously provided to Chair Buzek regarding that issue?
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, Chair's got an answer. Can I go ahead and answer? Sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: Go, ahead, Chief.
STEVE MARTINGANO: So for those that are not aware, our CEO and GM Debra Johnson pushed really,
really hard. We were trying for five years to get some type of policing rights within the city and county of
Denver. With her help and her push with the mayor's office, we are able to write at Denver Union Station.
So there is-- our transit police officers we all recognize under the Colorado State statute as being police
officers, and we are able to right only at the current location of Denver Union Station and the surrounding
area, give or take a block on both sides of our entire complex there.
I am working with the city to see if we could do a pilot program to extend that. We have, obviously, been
explaining some of the situations, especially to bus operators at bus stops and such that we are-- now with
the impact teams, that we would appreciate the ability to extend that to really everywhere within the city
and county of Denver.
They are looking at that, and we are hoping to have a meeting here set up with some of the people that are
allowed to give those rights within the city and county of Denver for a pilot program to extend it. They were
looking to make sure our citations were done correctly, that we were charging people with the right charges
and that we weren't making any errors.
At the end of the day, writing a citation, whether they are arrested and placed in jail or just ordered to
appear, is a right that could be taken away if we do it incorrectly. So we are looking for that. We're hoping
for an answer here very, very quickly.

And just to comment on Director Broom, I actually met with Chief Pasen today. We did a presentation for a
ballpark neighborhood, and they are experiencing-- a couple hundred police officers short. They were
actually allowed to hire 188 and were supposed to put a class of 40 in last week.
Only 14 people showed up for their academy class out of the 40 that they were allocated for. So what we're
really hoping for-- I said, we have our officers there. Very dedicated, the 22 that go out and perform. And
any help that we could give the city and county of Denver in that retrospect, we're hoping that they see that
as a positive and allow us to write citations further than just Union Station.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that update. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. One question, if I may, before I go to you, Second Vice Chair
Catlin, Director Dishell wants to know, are we able to specify in our citations that people are released on
PR bonds?
STEVE MARTINGANO: So within the citations, when we write it we, they get an appearance to court. So
we will give them a court date. So we actually would make a notation if they were jailed. Usually they're
jailed, though, just the way the jails are currently taking individuals into the jailing process. It's mostly for
felonies.
Most of the citations we write, especially the ones that were allowed in the city and county in Denver, are
more quality of life issues, so every one of our citations are a non-jailable offense. It's more of an order into
courts.
The other counties we could jail, and we do make a notation if they are jailed on that. What happens once
they get into the jail or they're released by someone from the judicial branch-- that obviously would be a
notation they make, but we would make a notation if they were jailed. So hopefully that answers this
question.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. I appreciate it. Second Vice Chair Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Chief, I'm really encouraged about that information and the fact
that you can now very carefully and cautiously-- writing citations at Denver Union Station is encouraging,
but I'm glad to see that you're exploring other options since most of the constituent complaints that I get
about that are at Civic Center Station.
So at least there's some hope that we might be able to rectify that. That was not going to be my comment.
My comment was really, given the suggestion from the administration that they might suspend the gas tax,
of which transit gets a portion, I was wondering if our financial people had done an analysis of what the
impact could be to the agency even if it's just a temporary suspension of the $0.184 gas tax on a national
basis and also if there would be a suspension of the $0.22 gas tax in Colorado.
So I don't need an answer today, but I was just wondering if staff would have an update on that because it
could potentially impact some of our operations and projects. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, yeah. So great question, and staff, if you could get back to everybody, I suppose,
on that, that'd be interesting information to have. Any other people that would like to bring something up in
other matters?
Seeing no further discussion, I would entertain a motion to adjourn.

TROY L WHITMORE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Whitmore and Tisdale, first and second. Any no votes on that? I'm seeing none we are
ajourned. Thanks, everybody. It's 7:38 PM. Thanks for participating.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Bye, Roger.

