Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, September 1, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:33 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:30 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Committee Chair

Absent
Absent
Present

4:34 PM

Tina Francone

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:10 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:07 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Absent
Absent

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:31 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:29 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:14 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:30 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:29 PM

Directors Bagley, Deadwyler, James and Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, Heather Copp, Joey
Davidson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck,
David Genova, Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud, Bob Grado, Erin Klaas,
Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian
Morales, Elizabeth Noreen, Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg
Straight, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, Michael Washington,

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Marion Combs, Mike Dino, Aaron Epstein, Nadia
Garas, Eugene Howard, Roger Sherman, Joe Triplett, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, shared that this week he would be
distributing the Municipal Candidate Election Snapshot to the Board. This
will be an Excel document that includes each jurisdiction and candidate with
a link to the snapshot of the candidate. He will provide an update after the
November elections. Roger Sherman said that his office is willing to help the
Directors make contact with any candidates prior to, or winners after, the
election.
Roger Sherman stated that the next Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) meeting
would be held November 7, 2015 at 7:30 a.m. at the Denver Metro
Chamber. He noted that Mayor Sue Horn of Bennett and MMC Chair has
announced that her husband took a job in Florida. He said that in the near
future she would be resigning and Mayor Heidi Williams of Thornton would
become the Chair.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna (BBMK), commented that
August is a slow month for the Legislature. BBMK continues to monitor the
activities of the Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) who
have scheduled a tour of the Southwest Corridor in September. The TLRC
also has two additional meetings calendared to discuss potential legislation.

She said that to BBMK’s knowledge none of the legislation would impact
RTD.
Jenifer Brandeberry shared that the Legislative Council Transportation
Caucus staff requested a tour of the East Line and Commuter Rail
Maintenance Facility. She believes the staff wants to remain updated and
educated so they can answer any questions of the Committee members.
Jenifer Brandeberry said that yesterday the State Audit Committee met
regarding an audit of the FASTER program and how CDOT spends funds and
prioritizes projects. She thinks from the audit it is clear there is tension
between the Committee and CDOT. She believes there might be legislation
targeting CDOT that directs them to be more accountable.
Jenifer Brandeberry informed the Board that in BBMK’s efforts to continue to
look for opportunities to build relationships with the Legislators, BBMK will
be putting together a learning/social event during the beginning of the
legislative session. She said BBMK is working to secure a date and noted
that the event will be Amendment 41 compliant. Committee Chair Folska
said that she looks forward to the ongoing relationship building.
Director Menten inquired if there was a State statute that required RTD to
have a mandatory audit and if so, what would be the timeframe. Scott
Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications, noted that RTD is
currently in discussions with the State Auditor about conducting another
audit. He said he could not remember the exact timeframe but would get
back with the Board. He stated that staff would brief the Board as soon as
the timeframe and scope had been determined. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
noted that the State Audit Committee could request a special audit at any
time should they want.
Director Francone pointed out that the findings of the FASTER audit
identified nine projects in the appendices. She understood that RTD was not
called out specifically as being part of these projects but wondered if there
might be an obligation as an agency to respond to any of the findings or
possibly change our practices. Jenifer Brandeberry explained that the audit
related to money received by CDOT used for CDOT projects, not RTD.
Marla Lien stated that RTD receives grants from CDOT that do allow for
CDOT to audit us. She explained that while CDOT has not conducted an
audit of RTD, they have to review all of our drawdowns, bills, etc., which
was not part of the criticism. She said if there was overall legislation to
change CDOT’s policy about how funds are distributed at that time the
Board would have to determine if RTD would weigh in; however, at this time
RTD’s practices have not been questioned.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, congratulated the RTD Board and staff on
being selected for a $700K grant from the FTA related to advancing the WIN
program. He said this is certainly a nice recognition and he knows RTD will
be able to use the funds effectively. He recognized that everyone normally
focuses on funding like FFGA but this grant is certainly important to what
RTD is trying to do as an organization.
Mike Dino shared that last Wednesday there was a very successful tour with
the Congressional delegation staff. He thanked Directors Folska and
Francone for leading the briefing. He said that Directors Archuleta and
Solano were in attendance along with great support from Scott Reed,
Assistant General Manager of Communications, and Julia Marvin,
Community Outreach Public Relations Specialist. He thought there was a
good representation from our Congressional offices. The intent was to have
a good policy discussion, particularly as it related to the reauthorization,
which he believes went very well. He thinks this is something that should
be continued on a regular basis because of the good feedback received from
the people that participated.
He reminded the Board that Congress is back in session next week and they
have a lot of work ahead of them. He noted that before leaving for break
the Senate passed a transportation reauthorization bill that covered six years
but was only funded for three. It increases New Starts funding by 36% and
Bus and Bus Facilities funding by almost 43% which Mike Dino thinks is
very positive; however, the House has been reluctant to match anything the
Senate does.
Mike Dino stated that there was a three month extension of the current
authorization through October 29. He pointed out that this extension does
provide funding for the Highway Trust Fund through the end of the year so
there is some flexibility in determining if they need another extension. He
said this would be easy if it was just transportation but there are many other
issues such as:
 Annual appropriations for Fiscal Year 2016
 Passage of a short-term Continuing Resolution to avoid a government
shutdown by September 30
 Approve the Iran nuclear deal
 Extension of the debt limit by late October/early November
Mike Dino believes that if there is a transportation reauthorization bill it will
use repatriation for funding. He explained that there is not enough political
support to look at anything with taxes.

Committee Chair Folska thanked Mike Dino for his help with the
Congressional delegation meeting. She also expressed her appreciation to
Julia Marvin for her excellent work.
Director Francone reiterated Committee Chair Folska’s thanks to the entire
team. She thought it was a wonderful event.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 13, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 5:49 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

