Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 3, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

• Federal Update - Former Secretary of Transportation Rodney Slater
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - March 3, 2015
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters

 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date: January 29, 2015

From:

Claudia
Folska,
Committee Chair

Date:

January 29, 2015

Subject:

Federal Update - Former
Transportation Rodney Slater

Government

Relations

GM
Board Meeting Date: February 3, 2015

Secretary

of

Information

You will note we have changed our normal format to accommodate this rare opportunity to hear from
Former USDOT Secretary Slater. So that we can maximize this interaction, please give some thought to
meaningful, constructive dialog you may want to have with Secretary Slater as preparation for our APTA
Legislative meeting in March. For example, what are some of the mechanisms for funding the HWY
Transportation Trust Fund for a long-term solution? I am sure you can think of other questions.
Below please see a synopsis of Former USDOT Secretary Slater’s bio:
Former U.S. Secretary of Transportation Rodney E. Slater helps clients integrate their interests in the
overall vision for the transportation system of the 21st Century—a vision he set as transportation
secretary to promote a safer, more efficient, environmentally sound and sustainable worldwide
transportation infrastructure. Mr. Slater also helps state and local government clients address the vexing
challenge of closing the gap between transportation demand and capacity by employing public/private
strategies and innovative financing solutions. Mr. Slater's practice focuses on many of the policy and
transportation objectives that were set under his leadership, including aviation competition and
congestion mitigation, maritime initiatives, high-speed rail corridor development, and overall
transportation safety and funding. He continues to embrace the framework he established as secretary
for making transportation decisions that called for more open, collaborative and flexible decision making
across the transportation enterprise here and abroad.
Mr. Slater’s bipartisan and inclusive approach to problem solving has earned him tremendous respect
and admiration on both sides of the aisle, enabling him to have one of the best relationships with the
White House, Congress, and business, labor and political leaders worldwide in the history of the
Department of Transportation (DOT). His work at DOT forever altered America’s and the world’s
appreciation of transportation as more than just concrete, asphalt and steel. Mr. Slater brings the same
strategic, results-oriented and collaborative approach to his public policy practice.
As secretary of transportation under President Bill Clinton, Mr. Slater passed several historic legislative
initiatives over his tenure, including the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), which
guaranteed a record $200 billion in surface transportation investment though 2003, and the Wendell H.
Ford Aviation Investment Reform Act for the 21st Century (AIR-21), which provides a record $46 billion

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

to improve the safety and security of the nation’s aviation system. Under his leadership, the federal
transportation budget doubled and in the department’s "best in government" strategic and performance
plans, the scope and definition of transportation was expanded to include a focus on safety, mobility
and access, economic development and trade, the environment and national security.
Previous to his tenure as transportation secretary, Mr. Slater served as director of the Federal Highway
Administration, where—as the agency’s first African-American Administrator in its century-long history—
he oversaw the development of an innovative financing program that resulted in hundreds of
transportation projects being completed two to three years ahead of schedule with greater cost
efficiencies. Over that time, the federal transportation budget increased an unprecedented 104 percent.
Additionally, the department’s FY2001 budget of nearly $60 billion is the largest ever.

Prepared by:
Claudia Folska, Government Relations Committee Chair
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

