Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399

Board of Directors

Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – Chris Martinez, District B
Second Vice Chair – Noel Busck, District K
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – John Tayer, District O
Kent Bagley – District H
Barbara Brohl – District D
Juanita Chacon – District C
Bill Christopher – District J
Matt Cohen – District M

Bill James – District A
William G. McMullen – District E
Jack O’Boyle – District G
Wally Pulliam – District L
Tom Tobiassen - District F

AGENDA
OPERATIONS & CUSTOMER SERVICES COMMITTEE
Tuesday, December 8, 2009 at 5:30 p.m.
Rooms R, T, & D
Conference Dial-in #: 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Services Committee
Chaired by Director Brohl
I.

Recommended Actions
a. Execution of 2010 Option with Global Transportation for the Provision of access-a-Ride
Service

II.

Information Items
a. access-a-Cab Reservation Process
b. Private Contractor Customer Complaint Process

III. Other Matters
IV. Next Meeting – To be determined
V.

Motion to Adjourn to Executive Session
a. C.R.S. Section 2-3-103(2), which states in part:
"All reports shall be open to public inspection except for that portion of any report
containing recommendations, comments, and any narrative statements which is
released only upon the approval of a majority vote of the committee" (emphasis added).
C.R.S. Section 2-3-103.7(1), which states in part:
"Any state employee or other individual acting in an oversight role as a member of a
committee, board, or commission who willfully and knowingly discloses the contents of
any report prepared by or at the direction of the state auditor's office prior to the
release of such report by a majority vote of the committee as provided in section 2-3103(2) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars" (emphasis added)
b. C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Matters Subject to Negotiations-New General Manager Contract
Parameters

VI. Motion to Adjourn from Executive Session

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

