Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
November 14, 2019 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Doug Tisdale
I.

Call to Order

II.

November Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - November 19, 2019
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Marshall Barner – Bus Operator – 18 years
Stephen Jimerson – Supervisor – 21 years
Lupe Jones – TIC Supervisor – 41 years
Eugene Saavedra – General Repair Mechanic – 18 years
Joy Volz – Quality Assurance Supervisor – 30 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger

Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of October 31, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Public Hearing for 2020 Budget

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Re-appointment of Salaried DB and DC Plan Trustees

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approves the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Bill
Van Meter and Derrick Black to a term expiring 12/31/2021 as trustees for the
Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee
Defined Contribution Plan.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #2 – Address Service & Human Capital
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
B.

Adoption of the Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the attached Investment Policy which contains
recommended changes to reflect changes in state law relating to bank securities
and some wording changes for clarification purposes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management, Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal
Sustainability
C.

Board Expense Reduction Resolution

It is recommended by the Executive Committee of the RTD Board of Directors that
the Board approve a motion to adopt the attached Resolution No. ______, Series of
2019, concerning a Temporary Reduction of Certain Board Office Budget Lines

Related to Director Travel and the Allocation of Certain Meeting Expenses to
Directors’ Local Expense Budgets.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #3
- Strong Financial Management.
XIII.

Recommended Action
D.

Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) for North Metro Line

It is recommended by Directors Buzek, Cook, Guissinger, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Whitmore, Williams, and Chair Tisdale at the Operations/Customer Services
Committee meeting, that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
take all necessary steps to design and implement a Promotional Fare Pilot Program
(“PFPP”) and to deploy the first project in the program on the North Metro Line
commencing from its opening date and continuing for a period of six (6) months
thereafter.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Increase Ridership
E.

Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopts the attached 2020 Proposed Performance Report and the
accompanying performance measures for mission statement goals 1-7. In 2020,
there are 42 proposed performance measures to be tracked for the GM, which is
one higher than for 2019.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Service
XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Executive Session
Conference with Legal Counsel on DTP and RRP litigation matters. CRS 42-6-402
(4) (b) (conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of
receiving legal advice on specific legal questions)

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

November 6, 2019

Subject:

Re-appointment of Salaried DB and DC Plan
Trustees

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: November 6, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approves the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Bill Van Meter and Derrick Black to a term
expiring 12/31/2021 as trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and
Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #2 – Address Service & Human Capital
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
BACKGROUND
On January 8, 2008, the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 1 Series of 2008 providing that
a screening committee composed of the Board Chair, the Chair of the Salaried Employee Pension Trust
Fund and the Finance Chair (i.e., Chair of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee) will screen
applications from the middle management salaried employee class and the senior management salaried
employee class and will bring recommendations back to the Board.
In 2010, Resolution No. 27 made modification to state that, “for reappointment of Trustees who have
served satisfactorily and in whose education the Trusts have made substantial investments, it is not
necessary to seek applications for renewal, and instead the application process established by the RTD
Board of Directors in 2008 will be used on those occasions when the Board finds it necessary or
appropriate to appoint new salaried trustees to the Trusts.”
On May 31, 2016, in Resolution No. 008 Series of 2016, the RTD Board of Directors amended the
Pension Trust and the Defined Contribution Trust, to end the “senior” and “middle” management
distinction, and instead authorized the Board of Directors to appoint two employee Trustees who
participate in the Pension Plan and two who participate in the Defined Contribution Plan, in addition to
the two Board members who are appointed to the Trusts and the Chief Financial Officer who is a
permanent member of the Trusts, to serve as the same set of trustees on both of the Trusts.
Bill Van Meter and Derrick Black current terms expire on 12/31/2019. Both Bill and Derrick meet the
criteria from Resolution No. 2017, Series 2010 for reappointment.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Bill Van Meter and Derrick

Packet Pg. 5

2.12.A

Black to a term expiring 12/31/2021 as trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e.,
Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
2. Reject the Recommended Action and the attached resolution, and require the screening
committee to return with a revised recommendation. This is not recommended since the
committee has reviewed applicants and performed its function in accordance with the Plan
requirements, consistent with the goals of existing Board resolutions.

ATTACHMENTS:


November 2019 Resolution Appointing Employee to Salaried Trusts

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
("RTD")
RESOLUTION No. _____ SERIES OF 2019
APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEE TO THE RTD SALARIED EMPLOYEES’ PENSION TRUST
AND RTD SALARIED EMPLOYEES’ DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN TRUST
Whereas, RTD maintains the RTD Salaried Employees' Pension Plan and Trust ("Pension Plan"
or "Pension Trust") for salaried employees hired by RTD before January 1, 2008 and the RTD Salaried
Employees' Defined Contribution Plan and Trust ("Defined Contribution Plan" or "Defined Contribution
Trust") for salaried employees hired on or after January 1, 2008, which may collectively be referred to
as the "Trusts"; and,
Whereas, two RTD Board Directors and five salaried employees serve as the same sets of
trustees for each of the above Trusts as further described below; and,
Whereas, on January 8, 2008 the RTD Board of Directors adopted Resolution No. 1 Series of
2008 providing that a screening committee composed of the Board Chair, the Chair of the Salaried
Employee Pension Trust Fund and the Finance Chair (i.e., Chair of the Finance Administration and Audit
Committee) will screen applications from the middle management salaried employee class and the
senior management salaried employee class and will bring recommendations back to the Board; and,
Whereas, in 2010, Resolution No. 27 made modification to state that, for reappointment of
Trustees who have served satisfactorily and in whose education the Trusts have made substantial
investments, it is not necessary to seek applications for renewal, and instead the application process
established by the RTD Board of Directors in 2008 will be used on those occasions when the Board
finds it necessary or appropriate to appoint new salaried trustees to the Trusts; and,
Whereas, on May 31, 2016, in Resolution No. 008 Series of 2016, the RTD Board of Directors
amended the Pension Trust and the Defined Contribution Trust, to end the “senior” and “middle”
management distinction, and instead authorized the Board of Directors to appoint two employee
Trustees who participate in the Pension Plan and two who participate in the Defined Contribution Plan,
in addition to the two Board members who are appointed to the Trusts and the Chief Financial Officer
who is a permanent member of the Trusts, to serve as the same set of trustees on both of the Trusts;
and
Whereas, the term of two Trustees, Bill Van Meter and Derrick Black expire at the end of 2019
and both wish to be reappointed; and
Whereas, in accordance with the above Resolutions, the RTD Board of Directors now wishes to
reappoint Bill Van Meter and Derrick Black to serve as an employee Trustee on both of the Trusts, with
a term expiring 12/31/2021.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: November 2019 Resolution Appointing Employee to Salaried Trusts (3994 : Re-appointment of Salaried DB and DC Plan Trustees)

2.12.A.a

The RTD Board of Directors, in compliance with Section 7.01 of the Trusts, hereby reappoints
Bill Van Meter, an employee who is a Defined Benefit (Pension) Plan participant, and Derrick
Black, an employee who is a Defined Contribution Plan participant, to serve as a trustee on both
the Trusts, with a term expiring 12/31/2021.
Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District this ___ day of
______________, 2019.
______________________
Claudia Folska
Secretary

_____________________
Doug Tisdale
Chair

For information purposes:
DEFINED BENEFIT (PENSION) TRUST:
Name of Trustee
Bob Broom, Director
Judy Lubow, Director
Bill Van Meter (PP* Employee)
Derrick Black (DC* Employee)
William Weidenaar (PP* Employee)
Sylvia Francis (DC* Employee)
Heather McKillop, CFO

Term Expiration Date
12/31/2020
12/31/2020
12/31/2021
12/31/2021
12/31/2020
12/31/2020
Permanent Member

DEFINED CONTRIBUTION TRUST:
Name of Trustee
Bob Broom, Director
Judy Lubow, Director
Bill Van Meter (PP* Employee)
Derrick Black (DC* Employee)
William Weidenaar (PP* Employee)
Sylvia Francis (DC* Employee)
Heather McKillop, CFO

Term Expiration Date
12/31/2020
12/31/2020
12/31/2021
12/31/2021
12/31/2020
12/31/2020
Permanent Member

*PP = Pension Plan participant; DC = Defined Contribution Plan participant

2

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: November 2019 Resolution Appointing Employee to Salaried Trusts (3994 : Re-appointment of Salaried DB and DC Plan Trustees)

2.12.A.a

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

November 6, 2019

Subject:

Adoption of the Investment Policy

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: November 6, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the attached Investment Policy which contains recommended changes to reflect changes in state
law relating to bank securities and some wording changes for clarification purposes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management, Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
BACKGROUND
The Policy specifies the practices and procedures that pertain to the investment of RTD’s operating and
reserve funds. The Board last approved modifications to the Policy in November 2018. Section 10 of
the Policy states “The CFO shall conduct a review of the Policy on an annual basis and present the
policy, denoting any changes, to the Board of Directors for approval.”
DISCUSSION
Staff solicited the expertise, knowledge and recommendations of its investment advisor, Public Trust
Advisors, in reviewing the current Policy. Recommended changes are in response to a change in state
law in 2019 and clarification to some previously existing text in the policy.
The purpose of the Investment Policy (the “Policy”) of the Regional Transportation District ("RTD") is to
specify the policies and procedures that support a prudent and systematic program for investments in
RTD’s operating and reserve funds. The Policy also provides for the investment of bond proceeds that
are authorized through bond resolutions or indentures of trust.
By following best practices with respect to the management of public funds, the primary objectives of
RTD’s Investment Policy in order of priority are: 1) safety of principal, 2) sufficient liquidity to meet
known cash flow requirements, and 3) yield (achieving a market rate of return). Although RTD must
legally follow the investment parameters dictated by Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S. 24-75-601.1) it
has previously made a policy decision to implement its investment program in a more conservative
manner than is dictated by state statute through imposing stricter diversification requirements.
A redlined copy of the recommended policy is attached which highlights the recommended changes from
the currently adopted investment policy.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the attached Investment Policy which contains recommended changes to reflect
changes in state law relating to bank securities and some wording changes for clarification

Packet Pg. 9

2.12.B

purposes.
2. Adopt the attached Investment Policy with additional changes

ATTACHMENTS:


Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

Investment Policy Statement

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

2.12.B.a

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

2.12.B.a

Table of Contents

Section

Page

1.

Purpose ............................................................................1

2.

Scope ...............................................................................1

3.

Objectives ........................................................................1

4.

Standards of Care ............................................................2

5.

Authorized Investments ...................................................3

6.

Investment Parameters ....................................................7

7.

Safekeeping and Custody ................................................8

8.

Reporting Requirements ..................................................8

9.

Performance Standards ....................................................8

10.

Investment Policy Review ...............................................9

11.

RTD Investment Policy Summary ................................10

12.

Investment Policy Review & Approval.........................11

Appendix

Appendix 1- Authorized Personnel ...........................................12

Packet Pg. 12

2.12.B.a

Regional Transportation District
Investment Policy Statement

The purpose of this document is to specify the policies and procedures that support a prudent and
systematic program for investment transactions involving operating and reserve funds of the
Regional Transportation District ("RTD").
2. SCOPE
This investment policy ("Policy") applies to investment of all operating and reserve funds of the
RTD (collectively, the “Portfolio").
This Policy shall not restrict the ability of RTD to invest proceeds from the issuance of RTD
securities in financial obligations permitted through board-approved bond resolutions or
indentures of trust pursuant to which the securities were issued. The standards of care dictated
for investments of other RTD funds shall also pertain to the investment of such proceeds.
3. OBJECTIVES
The objectives, in priority order, of the RTD's investment activities shall be:
3.1 Safety
Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program. Investments of RTD
will be made in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the Portfolio. To
attain this objective, RTD will endeavor to mitigate credit and interest rate risks.
Credit Risk: RTD will minimize credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to the failure of the
security issuer or backer, by:



Limiting investments to the types of securities listed in the Authorized Investments
section of this Policy.
Diversifying the Portfolio in accordance with Policy limits in order to minimize the
potential for losses from any one type of security or any one individual issuer.

Interest Rate Risk: RTD will minimize interest rate risk, which is the risk that the market
value of securities in the Portfolio will fall due to changes in market interest rates, by:


Maintaining Portfolio duration appropriate to the cash flow requirements of RTD,
thereby reducing the likelihood that securities would need to be sold on the open
market prior to maturity.

1
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

1. PURPOSE

2.12.B.a

3.2 Liquidity

3.3 Yield
The Portfolio shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints, liquidity
needs, and cash flow characteristics of the Portfolio.
4. STANDARDS OF CARE
4.1 Prudence
All RTD officers and employees involved in the investment of RTD funds, along with any
external investment advisors, shall adhere to the guidance provided by the “prudent investor”
standard to insure that:
“When investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling, or managing
public funds, a trustee shall act with care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the
circumstances then prevailing, including, but not limited to, the general economic
conditions and the anticipated needs of the agency, that a prudent person acting in a like
capacity and familiar with those matters would use in the conduct of funds of a like
character and with like aims, to safeguard the principal and maintain the liquidity needs
of the agency. Within the limitations of this section and considering individual
investments as part of an overall strategy, investments may be acquired as authorized by
law."
RTD shall recognize that no investment is totally riskless and that the investment activities of
RTD are a matter of public record. Accordingly, it recognizes that occasional measured losses
are inevitable in a diversified portfolio and shall be considered within the context of the overall
Portfolio’s return, provided that adequate diversification has been implemented, and that the sale
of a security is in the best long-term interest of RTD.
Authorized investment personnel acting in accordance with this Policy and exercising due
diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or
market price changes, provided that deviations from expectation are reported in a timely fashion
and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
4.2 Delegation of Authority
RTD is granted legislative authority to invest its funds pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes,
Section 32-9-119. Management responsibility for the investment program is hereby delegated to

2
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

The Portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to enable RTD to meet all cash flow requirements
which might be reasonably anticipated. This will be achieved through maturity diversification
and purchases of securities that have an established secondary market.

2.12.B.a

RTD may, in its discretion, contract with one or more investment advisers, registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, to manage a
portion of its Portfolio assets. Any such advisor shall comply with this Policy and such other
written instructions as provided by RTD.
While it is understood that the procedures and trading counterparties of a contracted investment
adviser may differ from those of RTD, contracted investment advisers must maintain internal
controls and compliance systems at least as extensive as those of the RTD in order to assure
adequate protection of RTD assets in keeping with the standards of prudence outlined below.
4.3 Investment Procedures
The CFO shall establish written procedures for the operation of the investment program,
consistent with this Policy, which shall include explicit delegation of authority to persons
responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this Policy and the internal procedures established by the
CFO. Persons who are authorized to transact investment business and wire funds on behalf of
RTD are listed in Appendix 1 to this policy.
4.4 Internal Controls
The CFO shall establish a system of internal controls, which shall be reviewed annually. The
controls shall be designed to prevent loss of funds due to fraud, employee error,
misrepresentation by third parties, or imprudent actions by employees of RTD.
4.5 Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Investment activities shall be performed in accordance with RTD’s Code of Ethics and other
policies of RTD. Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution of the investment
program, or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose to the General Manager any material financial interests in
financial institutions that conduct business with RTD, and they shall further disclose any large
personal/financial/investment positions that could be related to the performance of the Portfolio.
Employees and officers shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to those of RTD
particularly with regard to the timing of purchases or sales.
5. AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS
Authorized investments for RTD funds are specifically listed below. RTD recognizes that
investment risk can result from issuer defaults, market price changes or various technical
impediments leading to diminished liquidity or loss of capital. Portfolio risk management and
diversification are employed as a way to minimize the risks inherent in investing.
3
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

the General Manager and his designees. The General Manager’s designee will hereinafter be
referred to as the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”).

Credit Criteria: Credit criteria listed in this section refer to the credit rating at the time the
security is purchased. Rating categories defined by nationally recognized statistical rating
organizations (“NRSROs”) include intermediate rating categories. For example, the second
highest rating category (“AA”) includes bonds rated AA+, AA and AA- for Standard & Poor's
and Fitch, and Aa1, Aa2 and Aa3 for Moody's Investors Service. In the event that an issuer or
security is downgraded below the minimum rating level for any specific security that is held in
the Portfolio, the CFO will review the exposure of that security holding and will determine if it is
advisable to sell such holding.
Maturity Restrictions: Maturity restrictions shall be calculated from settlement date to maturity
date. Portfolio percentage restrictions by security type and issuer are applicable only on the date
of purchase of the investment.
Sector Diversification: The Portfolio will be limited to an aggregate exposure of 50% for the
following investment types: Municipal Bonds, Corporate Bonds, Commercial Paper, Time
Deposits/Time Certificates of Deposit and Banker's Acceptances.
1. U.S. Treasury Obligations. Obligations in the form of bills, notes, bonds or certificates
of indebtedness backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America.
100% of the Portfolio may be invested in U.S. Treasury Obligations. The maximum
maturity for investments in U.S. Treasury Obligations shall be limited to five years.
2. Federal Agency and Instrumentality Securities: Obligations, participations or other
instruments of any Federal agency, instrumentality or United States governmentsponsored enterprise as described in CRS 24-75-601.1(1)(b) (an “Agency” or
“Agencies”). Such securities shall be rated in one of the two highest rating categories (as
described above in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two NRSROs. No more than
75% of the Portfolio may be invested in Federal Agency and Instrumentality Securities,
with no more than 25% being invested in a single issuer. Subordinate debt of any issuer
is not authorized. The maximum maturity for investments in Federal Agency and
Instrumentality Securities shall be limited to five years.
Authorized Securities include, but may not be limited to:






Federal Home Loan Bank
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
Federal National Mortgage Association
Federal Farm Credit Bank
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)

3. Municipal Bonds. General Obligation Bonds and Revenue Obligation Bonds of state or
local governments. Such obligations of Colorado (or any political subdivision, institution,
department, agency, instrumentality, or authority of the state) shall be rated in one of the
three highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs. Such obligations of any other governmental entity shall be rated in one of the
4
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

2.12.B.a

2.12.B.a

two highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two
NRSROs.

Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds which are secured by an escrow of U.S. Treasury
securities or State and Local Government Series securities, shall be rated in one of the
two highest rating categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by a NRSRO.
No more than 40% of the Portfolio may be invested in Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds
and no more than 5% may be invested with a single issuer.
With the exception of Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds described above, no more than
20% of the Portfolio may be invested in Municipal Bonds with no more than 3% of the
Portfolio invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in
Municipal Bonds shall be limited to five years.
4. Corporate Bondsor Bank Securities. Debt denominated in United States
Dollars,securities issued by corporations or financial institutions organized and operating
in the United States. Eligible corporate bonds or bank securities (such as negotiable
certificates of deposit) shall be rated in one of the two highest categories (as described in
the Credit Criteria section) by at least two NRSROs. These ratings requirements first
apply to the security being purchased and second, if the security itself is unrated, to the
issuer provided the security contains no provisions subordinating it from being a senior
debt obligation of the issuer. No more than 20% of the Portfolio may be invested in
corporate bonds and bank securities and no more than 3% may be invested with a single
corporation or bank; notwithstanding the book value limits of 24-75-601.1(1)(m). The
maximum maturity for investments in corporate and bank securities bonds shall be
limited to three years.
5. Commercial paper. Commercial paper issued by a corporation or bank that is organized
and operated within the United States. Investments in commercial paper must carry at
least two credit ratings from any NRSRO and both must be at least “A-1”, “P1” or “F1”.
Investments in commercial paper may not exceed 40% of the Portfolio and no more than
3% may be invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in
commercial paper is 270 days.
6. Time Deposits/FDIC Insured Time Certificates of Deposit (CDs). Time
Deposits/TimeFDIC Insured Certificates of Deposit (CDs ) issued by a nationally or
state-chartered bank or a state or federal savings and loan association or by a statelicensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible certificates of deposit shall be rated in one of
the two highest categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by a NRSRO. CDs
shall be exempted from rating requirements if the CDs are fully insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).

5
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

For short term or variable rate instruments ("Short Term Municipal Bonds"), the
securities must be rated at least “A-1”, “MIG 1”, or the equivalent, by a NRSRO.

2.12.B.a

7. Bankers’ Acceptances (BAs). Bills of exchange or time drafts that are drawn on and
accepted by a commercial bank. Eligible BAs shall be rated in one of the two highest
categories (as described in the Credit Criteria section) by at least two NRSROs. No more
than 20% of the Portfolio may be invested in BAs and no more than 3% may be invested
with a single institution. The maximum maturity for investments in BAs shall be limited
to one year.
8. Repurchase Agreements. Repurchase Agreements concerning U.S. Treasury and agency
securities listed in items (1) or (2) above. Repurchase agreement counterparties must be
Primary Government Securities Dealers reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York and shall have either a) a long term rating in one of the two highest categories by a
NRSRO (as described in the Credit Criteria section), or b) short term ratings not less than
“A1”, “P1” or “F1” by any NRSRO.
The market value of collateral securities shall be marked-to-market daily. RTD shall have
specific written agreements with each firm with which it enters into repurchase
agreements.
No more than 50% of the Portfolio may be invested in repurchase agreements and no
more than 10% may be invested with a single counterparty. The maximum maturity for a
repurchase agreement shall be limited to 90 days.
9. Money Market Funds. Shares of beneficial interest issued by diversified management
companies that are treasury or government money market funds registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and
meeting the maturity requirements specified in rule 2a-7 of that Act. To be eligible for
investment, these companies shall have either: (i) attained the highest ranking or the
highest letter and numerical rating provided by one or more NRSROs or (ii) assets under
management of one billion dollars or more ($1,000,000,000). The investment policies of
any such fund shall include seeking to maintain a stable $1 net asset value. Additionally,
the purchase price of shares of beneficial interest shall not include any commission that
these companies may charge. A maximum of 100% of the Portfolio may be invested in
treasury or government money market funds with a single fund constituting no more than
50% of the Portfolio.
10. Local Government Investment Pools. Any interest in a local government investment
pool organized under CRS 24-75-701 et. seq. To be eligible for investment, a local
government investment pool shall have the highest ranking or the highest letter and
numerical rating provided by one or more NRSROs. A maximum of 100% of the

6
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

For CDs in amounts in excess of the FDIC limit, the CD amount must be collateralized in
accordance with the Public Deposit Protection Act. No more than 10% of the Portfolio
may be invested in securities described in this investment category. No more than 3% of
the Portfolio may be invested in CDs of a single institution. The maximum maturity for
investments in FDIC Insured CDs shall be limited to one year.

2.12.B.a

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

Portfolio may be invested in local government investment pools with a single pool
constituting no more than 50% of the Portfolio.

7
Packet Pg. 19

2.12.B.a

6. INVESTMENT PARAMETERS

RTD does not make investments for the purpose of trading or speculation, but, rather, with the
prevalent intent to hold securities to maturity. The prohibition of speculative investment
precludes pursuit of profit through unusual risk or conjectural fluctuations in market prices.
However, fluctuations in market rates or changes in credit quality may produce situations where
securities may be sold at a nominal loss in order to mitigate further erosion of principal or to
reinvest proceeds of sale in securities that will out-perform the original investment.
6.2 Competitive Bidding
A record shall be maintained of all bids and offers for securities transactions to support RTD’s
competitive pricing process. Relative offerings shall not be required in the purchase of
obligations at their initial auction or offering. Typically, awards will be made to the bidder
offering the highest effective yield consistent with the Policy: however, transaction costs,
diversification requirements, extraordinary events and other factors may be considered when
awarding investments. RTD shall obtain competitive bid or offer information on all purchases or
sales of investment instruments on the secondary market. A competitive bid or offer can be
executed through a bidding process involving at least three separate brokers/financial
institutions. If RTD is offered a security for which there is no readily available competitive
offering on the same specific issue, the investment officer may document quotations for
comparable or alternative securities. When purchasing original/new issue securities, no
competitive offerings will be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those securities at
the same original issue price.
6.3 Portfolio Duration
The maturity of the securities in the Portfolio shall be managed with respect to the cash flow
needs of RTD and the Portfolio shall be managed to maintain a duration of three years or less.
6.4 Authorized Financial Dealers and Institutions
RTD or an investment advisor hired by RTD will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services and it shall be the policy of RTD to purchase securities
only from those authorized institutions and firms. Trading counterparties shall be limited to (i)
primary dealers reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or (ii) broker/dealers that
qualify under Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c3-1 (uniform net capital rule).
6.5 Authorized Investment Advisors
RTD may engage the services of one or more professional investment advisory firms to assist in
the management of the Portfolio. Such investment advisors may be granted discretion to
purchase and sell investment securities in accordance with this Policy and may utilize their own
approved list of broker/dealers. Such firms must be authorized to conduct business in the State

8
Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

6.1 Sale of Securities

2.12.B.a

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

of Colorado and shall be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

9
Packet Pg. 21

2.12.B.a

7. SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY

With the exception of collateral under repurchase agreements (discussed below), all investment
securities purchased shall be held in a safekeeping account or trust custody account at a
designated third party custodian. For safekeeping accounts, the institution shall issue a
safekeeping receipt for each security, listing the specific instrument, par value, rate, CUSIP and
any other pertinent information. In addition, the safekeeping or trust custody institutions shall
provide a statement on at least a monthly basis listing all securities held in account, including
book value and market value of holdings at month-end.
For collateral (purchased securities) under repurchase agreements, RTD may utilize tri-party
repurchase agreements with an acceptable third-party custodian provided that RTD is satisfied
that it has perfected interest in the securities used as collateral, and that RTD has a properly
executed tri-party agreement.
7.2 Delivery vs. Payment
All investment transactions will be executed on a delivery versus payment basis.
8. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Investment reports shall be prepared on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Transaction
summaries shall be maintained and available in the office of the CFO or other authorized
investment personnel. Quarterly investment reports shall be submitted to the Board of Directors
and shall outline RTD’s total investment return and compare the Portfolio’s performance to a
publicly available index of securities having similar quality and duration characteristics.
Within 120 days of the end of RTD’s fiscal year, a comprehensive report on RTD’s investment
program and investment activity shall be prepared for the Board of Directors. The annual report
shall include quarterly comparisons of investment return and may suggest improvements that
might be made in the investment program. Such annual report shall include any other item of
significance which may enhance the understanding of the investment program. Each investment
advisor shall submit like reports in a timely manner based on the respective terms of each
contract and agreement
All securities holdings reports for RTD shall disclose the maximum maturity liability to RTD
(the stated maturity) as well as the first call date of each callable security held.
9. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
RTD's Portfolio is managed with the objective of obtaining a market rate of return,
commensurate with identified risk constraints and cash flow characteristics. Because the
composition of the Portfolio fluctuates, depending on market and credit conditions, various
indices may be used to monitor investment performance.
10
Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

7.1 Safekeeping and custody

2.12.B.a

RTD recognizes that bond proceeds must be invested in accordance with Section 1.148 of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code, related to arbitrage rebate, which limits the investment returns
which may be achieved or retained by RTD on such proceeds investments. For purposes of this
Policy “bond proceeds” shall mean proceeds from the issuance of bonds, certificates of
participation or other financial securities issued by RTD.
10. INVESTMENT POLICY REVIEW AND APPROVAL
The CFO shall conduct a review of the Policy on an annual basis and present the Policy,
denoting any changes, to the Board of Directors for approval.

11
Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

The current board-approved index for the liquidity tier of the Portfolio (cash and cash
equivalents) is the 3-month U.S. Treasury Bill Index as published by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. For the enhanced cash portion of the Portfolio (securities maturing between 90 days and
5 years and with a target duration of 1 year), the designated performance benchmark is the
Merrill Lynch 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index.

2.12.B.a

11. RTD AUTHORIZED INVESTMENT SUMMARY
FOR A DETAILED

Security Type

Maximum
Portfolio %

Maximum
Issuer %

Maturity
Restrictions

Rating
Restrictions

U.S. Treasuries

100%

100%

5 years

N/A

75%

25%

5 years

AA

20%*

3%*

5 years

A

20%*

3%*

5 years

AA

20%*

3%*

5 years

“A-1” or
“MIG 1”

40%

5%

5 years

AA

20%

3%

3 years

AA

Commercial Paper

40%

3%

270 days

“A-1/P1/F1”

Time Deposit/FDIC
Insured CDs

10%

3%

1 year

AA

Bankers Acceptances

20%

3%

1 year

AA

Repurchase Agreements

50%

10%

90 days

AA

Money Market Funds

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm

Local Government
Investment Pools

100%

50%

N/A

AAAm/AAAf

Federal Agencies and
Instrumentalities
Municipal Bonds,
of a Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds,
of a non-Colorado Issuer
Municipal Bonds,
Short Term
Municipal Bonds,
Pre-Refunded
Corporate Bondsor
Bank Securities

* The aggregate exposure to such bonds may not exceed 20% of the Portfolio and no more than
3% of the portfolio may be invested with a single issuer.

12
Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

THIS PAGE IS PROVIDED FOR SUMMARY PURPOSES ONLY.
DESCRIPTION PLEASE SEE AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.

2.12.B.a

12. INVESTMENT POLICY APPROVAL AND ADOPTION

Chief Financial Officer

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

Approved

Date

Adopted
Board of Directors

Chair

Date

Secretary

Date

13
Packet Pg. 25

2.12.B.a

The following persons are authorized to transact investment business on behalf of the Regional
Transportation District (“RTD”):
General Manager
Chief Financial Officer
Sr. Manager of Debt and Investments
Controller
Sr. Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis

14
Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Recommended Investment Policy 10-31-19 (3995 : Adoption of the Investment Policy)

Regional Transportation District (“RTD”)
Investment Policy Statement
Appendix 1
Authorized Personnel

2.12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date: October 24, 2019

From:

Barbara G McManus,
Board Office

Date:

October 24, 2019

Subject:

Board Expense Reduction Resolution

Executive

Manager,

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Executive Committee of the RTD Board of Directors that the Board approve a
motion to adopt the attached Resolution No. ______, Series of 2019, concerning a Temporary Reduction
of Certain Board Office Budget Lines Related to Director Travel and the Allocation of Certain Meeting
Expenses to Directors’ Local Expense Budgets.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #3 - Strong Financial
Management.
BACKGROUND
Directors are eligible for reimbursement from the District for reasonable local and travel expenses
incurred that are necessary to the transaction of official District business. Out-of-District registration
fees for the first two sanctioned events for each Director are not charged against the Director’s
expenses and are instead paid for using Board Office funds.
In 2009 and again in 2011, the Board unanimously adopted resolutions reducing the Board members’
spending limits on their local and travel expenses as economic downturns required a reduction in overall
agency spending.
DISCUSSION
The attached resolution, for Fiscal Year 2020 only:




Reduces by $2,000 the amount allocated to each Directors’ travel expense budget;
Reduces by half, or $12,750, the amount budgeted by the Board Office to defray the cost of
Directors’ registration fees incurred in order to attend out-of-District transit-related conferences;
and
Authorizes the Board Office to allocate a debit in the amount of $10.00 toward each Director’s
local expense account for expenses incurred by the Board Office on behalf of the Director in the
course of preparing for official meetings of the Board and its committees.

ALTERNATIVES
1. To adopt the attached resolution.
2. To reject the resolution. Rejection of this resolution would necessitate further cuts to certain line
items in the Board Office budget in order to balance the Board Office’s component of the 2020
requested agency budget.

Packet Pg. 27

2.12.C

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Adoption of this resolution would result in an estimated General Fund savings of at least $51,000 during
Fiscal Year 2020.

ATTACHMENTS:


Board Expense Reduction Resolution - DRAFT

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
John McKay, Adminstrator
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 28

2.12.C.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

Temporary Reduction of Certain Board Office Budget Lines Related to Director Travel and
Allocation of Certain Meeting Expenses to Directors’ Local Expense Budgets
WHEREAS, The Regional Transportation District (RTD) has 15 elected Board members who
serve their constituents on a daily basis throughout the community, at committee meetings,
study sessions, and Board meetings, and at the legislature, and
WHEREAS, there is an increasing need and desire of the community to hear of RTD’s
evolving plans and projects; and
WHEREAS, Board members’ direct contact with constituents puts a public face on RTD and
gives community members the opportunity to share ideas and concerns with their elected
officials; and
WHEREAS, in order to learn current information and keep updated on a myriad of
transportation issues and new innovations across the nation, it is important for Directors to
experience first-hand other transit agencies and issues they face; and
WHEREAS, in order to grasp new ever-changing transit technology, it is important for the
Directors to attend conferences and formal presentations and meet with peers from other
transit agencies to discuss issues similar to those experienced by RTD; and
WHEREAS, in recognition of the reduction in sales and use tax revenues, the Board believes
it appropriate to reduce the expense limits allocated to the RTD Board members;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that for Fiscal Year 2020 only:
1) The amount allocated to each Director’s travel expense budget shall be reduced by
$2,000;
2) The amount budgeted by the Board Office to defray the cost of Directors’ registration
fees incurred in order to attend out-of-District transit-related conferences shall be
reduced by half; and
3) That the Board Office is authorized to allocate a debit in the amount of $10.00 toward
each Director’s local expense account for expenses incurred by the Board Office on
behalf of the Director in the course of preparing for official meetings of the Board and
its committees.

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Board Expense Reduction Resolution - DRAFT (3987 : Board Expense Reduction Resolution)

RESOLUTION NO. ______, SERIES OF 2019

2.12.C.a

____________________________
Jeff Walker
Secretary
Attachment: Board Expense Reduction Resolution - DRAFT (3987 : Board Expense Reduction Resolution)

____________________________
Doug Tisdale
Chair of the Board

Packet Pg. 30

2.13.D

DIRECTOR REQUESTED AGENDA ITEM
To:

Board of Directors

Requested
by:

Vince Buzek, Director, District J

Date:

November 6, 2019

Subject:

Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) for
North Metro Line

Date: November 6, 2019

Board Meeting Date: November 19, 2019

Added to Committee Agenda as a Director initiated request pursuant to RTD Board Bylaws Art. VI,
Section 1(f). Requires formal motion and second at Committee meeting.
MOTION
It is recommended by Directors Buzek, Cook, Guissinger, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Whitmore, Williams,
and Chair Tisdale at the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting, that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager take all necessary steps to design and implement a Promotional
Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) and to deploy the first project in the program on the North Metro Line
commencing from its opening date and continuing for a period of six (6) months thereafter.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Increase Ridership
BACKGROUND
RTD has and is exploring means to increase ridership. In fact, increasing ridership is a 2020 Core Goal of
the General Manager. To that end, staff, Directors and others have been exploring the impact of a fare
reduction or flattening fares on ridership demand. This price elasticity of demand analysis is critical to
the RTD Mission. To advance this analysis, and in keeping with the goals of Reimagining RTD, this
proposal will create a pilot program on the soon-to-be-opened North Metro Line. This 6 month pilot
program will cause the fare for the entirety of the North Metro Line to be a Local fare notwithstanding
the fact that the two end of line stations are considered to be in a Regional fare zone. Depending on
outcome of the PFPP, this model may be used as a template to explore fare changes on similarly-situated
routes.
DISCUSSION
In its continuing effort to increase system ridership while simultaneously providing affordable
transportation services and maintaining fiscal sustainability, the Regional Transportation District shall
timely design and implement a Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”).
Traveling through three Fare Zones on a corridor results in the rider having to pay a higher regional fare
rather than the lower local fare paid by riders traveling through less than three fare zones. The PFPP is
intended to explore, in a responsible way, what the impact would be of reducing these higher fares to
the same as that paid by local fare zone travelers. The assumption is that payment of the higher fare
may reasonably have the effect of reducing ridership, with the corollary assumption being that lowering
the rate should increase ridership.

Packet Pg. 31

2.13.D

The goals of the PFPP shall be:
o

o

To increase ridership by a designated factor, such factor to be determined in the development
of each pilot project, over RTD’s reasonable ridership estimates or actual statistics for any
corridor designated for the PFPP;
To test what percentage of lost fare revenue is recovered by an increase in ridership, and
evaluate effects on parking demand;

o

To gather data so as to inform the Re-Imagine study and/or subsequent reviews or
examinations of fare or zone changes

o

Over time, to better ascertain the relationship between fares, ridership, fare revenues, and
farebox recovery in the District
The PFPP would take advantage of the Promotional Fare exemption provision of applicable
federal law. An RTD rail or bus corridor operating under the PFPP shall charge a local fare
only during the period of its designation under the PFPP, unless the parameters of the PFPP
for a specific corridor demand otherwise.

o

All rail and bus corridors that traverse three fare zones, necessitating the payment of a regional fare,
may be eligible for inclusion in the PFPP, with the proviso that only one such corridor shall operate under
the PFPP at any given time, subject at all times to any applicable oversight or restrictions imposed by
regulatory agencies, including the Federal Transit Administration. For a variety of reasons, the North
Metro Commuter Rail Line (“N Line”) is a candidate for this pilot. These reasons include the N line’s
newness, the intense local interest in this subject on the N line, and because it will have available
technology to provide accurate ridership counts. Inclusion as a PFPP will mean that the N Line shall
charge riders a local fare only, starting from the opening date of the N Line until the date six months
following such opening.
At the conclusion of such six-month pilot period the agency shall examine ridership statistics, fare
revenue and parking demand to determine whether the N Line pilot enjoyed ridership growth meeting or
exceeding the designated factor (on an annualized basis) over the agency’s good faith reasonable
estimates or actual ridership statistics on the corridor. In the event that ridership did increase by at least
the designated factor for that corridor, the agency shall look at options for extending this fare and
expanding it to other areas.
STAFF DISCUSSION
BACKGROUND
Prior to the opening of the University of Colorado A Line, the RTD Board of Directors adopted a
consolidated fare structure that resulted in three fare categories: Local, Regional, and Airport. The new
fare structure was the outcome of a two-year process that included extensive public outreach and
engagement, exhaustive technical analysis (including a mandatory FTA Civil Rights Act Title VI fare
equity analysis), and thorough deliberation by the RTD Board of Directors.

Packet Pg. 32

2.13.D

The new fares were designed to simplify the way passengers pay for trips across RTD’s system and
were implemented on January 1, 2016. The rail fare zone categories are Zones A and B (Local), Zone C
(Regional) and the Airport Zone (Denver International Airport). Passengers traveling 1 or 2 zones pay the
Local fare and passengers traveling through 3 zones pay the Regional fare. Airport passengers pay the
Airport fare.
Charging a higher fare for longer distance, faster services is consistent with RTD’s past practice and fare
policies District-wide and was specifically retained as part of the 2016 Fare Policy due to concerns
regarding equity for those making shorter trips. Members of the public commenting on the proposed fare
changes at that time, as well as many elected officials, thought that traveling longer distances on rail
and premium buses warranted a higher fare. The option for traveling at a lower, Local fare, for these
longer distance trips remains for most passengers using the local/limited bus system.
Since 2016, bus fares for Regional and Express buses are based, consistently, on the rail zones. Routes
like the Flatiron Flyer, 120X, 122X and other routes serving Downtown Denver have their fares to and
from Downtown Denver based on the fare zones. Routes not serving Downtown Denver or having long
distances in Zone C have their fares based on the distances used in in determining a Local or Regional
fare for rail: 9.5 miles. Passenger trips traveling greater than 9.5 miles on an express or limited-stop
portion (generally freeway or expressway) require a Regional fare, while passenger trips less than 9.5
miles require a Local fare. These fares are accurately reflected in fare charts on the website and on the
schedules for each Regional route, as well as in the Trailblazer.
The boundary between Zones B and C, and thus a Local and Regional fare to Downtown Denver, is 9.5
miles from Union Station as noted above. The distances in RTD’s fare zones are concentric circles
centered on Union Station that do not take into account the length of the rail lines. RTD felt this was
important in order to assure that RTD passengers were treated as fairly and consistently as possible,
regardless of the difference between how far the station is from Union Station “as the crow flies,”
compared with the somewhat longer distance actually traversed by a Commuter or Light Rail Train (and
the Flatiron Flyer BRT). For example, while the Wheat Ridge-Ward Station on the G Line is 11 miles by
rail from Union Station, the rail line travels north for about 3.5 miles before turning southwest to reach
the end of the line and the straight-line distance is only 7.5 miles.
The Promotional Fare Pilot Project (PFPP) is proposed to respond to requests to expand the existing Rail
System Zone B (“Zone B”) to include two additional N Line stations: Northglenn-112th and Eastlake124th. The stations in question are 10.5 and 11.9 straight-line miles from Union Station, respectively.
Thornton Crossroads-104th is just inside the boundary at 9.4 miles.
The District has received similar requests since 2016 to expand the Local fare zone, including for
example the Jefferson County Government Center Station on the W Line. The narrative in the Discussion
section of this report highlights opportunities and issues associated with the N Line itself, as well as a
broader expansion to stations that would be included if the concept was expanded consistent with
RTD’s distance-based fare policy. To date, our message in response to Local fare zone expansion
requests has been consistent: we are unable to make exceptions to our fare zones for individual stations
or lines. Moving the fare zone boundary in a way that would make the entirety of the N Line a local fare

Packet Pg. 33

2.13.D

to Union Station would logically necessitate the inclusion of numerous additional stations on other Light
Rail and Commuter Rail lines in Zone B, two stations on the Flatiron Flyer, and the Wagon Road bus park
and ride.
The current PFPP proposal is to limit the expansion of the Local fare zone to only two N Line stations, as
noted above, for a limited period of time. There is a provision in the Federal Transit Administration’s
regulations regarding compliance with provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to do so, for
up to a six-month period, as discussed below. Based upon previous dialogues and experience around this
topic, it is highly likely that other stakeholder jurisdictions will expect similar treatment, so we have
outlined some potential implications for Board consideration.
Also note that staff is preparing to undertake, in 2020, an analysis of various fare structure changes,
including an analysis of flat fares, with estimates of fare revenue changes and anticipated ridership
response. This work is to be modeled using the tools developed in support of the recent fare analyses
and with assistance from four nines technologies, the firm that assisted in analysis for the past studies.
DISCUSSION
As noted, the PFPP is proposed to respond to requests to expand the existing Rail System Zone B
(“Zone B”) to include two additional N Line stations: Northglenn-112th and Eastlake-124th. The PFPP can
afford RTD the opportunity to conduct a before and after analysis of impacts to fare revenue, ridership
and parking demand in isolation to help provide better information for future fare analyses and policy
decision-making. The following sections discuss a number of technical and policy considerations
regarding the PFPP implementation.
Parking Impacts: On the N Line, the station at Thornton Crossroads-104th has the largest parking
capacity at 880 cars. This station is also the last station within Zone B and a local fare to Downtown
Denver under RTD’s current Board-adopted fare structure. The two stations farther north at Northglenn112th and Eastlake-124th have a combined capacity of 720 cars (310 and 410, respectively) and, absent
the PFPP, passengers opting to drive farther to the greater capacity at Thornton Crossroads-104th will
have the advantage of more plentiful parking and a lower fare. Charging a local fare at all stations could
overburden the smaller parking facilities farther north on the N Line, making for a more difficult parking
situation.
Having additional stations with a Local fare to Downtown would also place additional parking demand on
several stations that currently experience full occupancy on a regular basis. The current Local and
Regional fare boundary helps to balance parking demand by encouraging some customers to drive to
parking facilities with available space in exchange for a lower fare to Downtown Denver.
Title VI Implications: RTD strives to operate a socially equitable transit system, where services,
resources, benefits, and adverse effects are shared in a fair and nondiscriminatory manner. As a
recipient of federal financial assistance, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) requires that RTD
promote social equity in compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order
12898 (Environmental Justice). Specifically, the FTA requires that all fare changes are subject to equity
analyses and public feedback. Equity analyses are an evaluation of permanent fare changes for

Packet Pg. 34

2.13.D

disproportionate impacts on low-income and minority populations. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and Executive Order 12898 (Environmental Justice) prohibit recipients of federal funds from
implementing policies that have the effect of disproportionately impacting low-income and minority
populations.
Over the past four years, RTD has conducted two fare studies to develop fare policies that equitably
meet our fare revenue targets. Any proposal to revise our distance-based fare structure will require a
detailed analysis of revenue and equity impacts. RTD has not subjected the creation of a fare zone
exception for the N Line to an equity analysis or public feedback. Deviating from our current fare zone
policy without conducting an equity analysis or soliciting public feedback violates federal requirements,
jeopardizing current and future federal funding. Further, should the policy change result in
disproportionate impacts, RTD would be exposed to lawsuits under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964.
FTA regulations do allow a very small set of exceptions to their fare equity analysis requirements, one in
particular referred to as a “promotional fare reduction.” If a promotional or temporary fare reduction lasts
six months or longer, then FTA considers the fare reduction permanent and the transit provider must
conduct a fare equity analysis. After the proposed promotional fare period on the N Line ends, RTD
would need to revert from a Local fare back to a Regional fare and then conduct a fare equity analysis to
determine the implications of the Local fare. In any case, RTD could not start another promotional fare
period without conducting a complete District-wide fare equity analysis.
Before and After Analysis: As noted above, a six-month PFPP implementation of Local fares on the N
Line would afford RTD and our stakeholders with a real-world demonstration of the impacts of distancebased fares on fare revenues, ridership and parking demand. RTD will be able to collect information on
each of these both before (during the six-month PFPP period) and then after the conclusion of the PFPP.
This information can be used in future analyses and will provide technical and policy insights that can
inform future decision-making.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Staff has estimated that the six-month promotional fare would result in a fare loss of approximately
$180,000 – based on the relative inelasticity of demand for transit relative to fare changes, and the
revenue differences between the average Local fare compared to the average Regional fare. RTD staff
has not estimated the revenue loss for other individual corridors.
Also note that implementation of fare changes will require staff resources and money, an estimate of
which staff has not had the time to prepare and which would vary based on Board Direction relative to
the scope of the preferred PFPP implementation. These could include but are not limited to: costs to
conduct the before and after analysis; costs to reprogram Ticket Vending Machines; needs associated
with adjusting back-office accounting and customer facing interfaces; resources required for
communications and customer information efforts, printing and advertising, etc.

Packet Pg. 35

2.13.D

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action.
ATTACHMENTS:


pfpp resolution



Board Action - Signature Page

(DOCX)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Vince Buzek, Director, District J
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 36

2.13.D.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District is continually seeking opportunities
to increase ridership, simplify transit use and otherwise enhance the transit experience for
its riders; and
WHEREAS, there is interest in exploring fare/price sensitivity and associated changes
in demand on ridership and parking; and
WHEREAS, an opportunity presents itself as a Promotional Fare Pilot Program
(“PFPP”) to test the effect of flattening fares first on the North Metro Rail Line (“N Line”)
for a period of six (6) months commencing on the opening of the N Line; and
WHEREAS, The goals of the PFPP shall be to increase ridership by a designated
factor, such factor to be determined in the development of each pilot project, over RTD’s
reasonable ridership estimates or actual statistics for any corridor designated for the PFPP;
to test what percentage of lost fare revenue is recovered by an increase in ridership, and
evaluate effects on parking demand; to gather data so as to inform the Re-Imagine study
and/or subsequent reviews or examinations of fare or zone changes; and over time, to better
ascertain the relationship between fares, ridership, fare revenues, and farebox recovery in
the District ; and
WHEREAS, the PFPP supports the General Manager’s Core Goals and the Mission of
the RTD; and
WHEREAS, the first pilot project on the N Line can serve as a template for further
analysis of fares on other corridors, subject at all times to any applicable oversight or
restrictions imposed by regulatory agencies, including the Federal Transit Administration;
and
WHEREAS, the N Line is a candidate for the first pilot because of the N line’s
newness, the intense local interest in this subject on the N line, and because it will have
available technology to provide accurate ridership counts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the General Manager is directed to take all
necessary steps to design and implement a Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) and to

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: pfpp resolution (4002 : Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) for North Metro Line)

RESOLUTION NO. ______, SERIES OF 2020
REGARDING THE DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF A PROMOTIONAL FARE
PILOT PROGRAM AND DEPLOYING SUCH PROGARM ON THE OPENING
DATE OF THE NORTH METRO RAIL LINE

2.13.D.a

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that At the conclusion of each six-month pilot period the
agency shall examine ridership statistics, fare revenue and parking demand to determine
whether the pilot project enjoyed ridership growth meeting or exceeding the designated
factor (on an annualized basis) over the agency’s good faith reasonable estimates or actual
ridership statistics on the corridor. In the event that ridership did increase by at least the
designated factor for that corridor, the agency shall look at options for extending this fare
and expanding it to other areas.

PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS __________ DAY OF ____________, 2019.
____________________________
Doug Tisdale
Chair of the Board

____________________________
Jeff Walker
Secretary

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: pfpp resolution (4002 : Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) for North Metro Line)

deploy the first project in the program on the North Metro Line commencing from its opening
date and continuing for a period of six (6) months thereafter.

2.13.D.b

Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede,
Secretary
District
C – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

WRITTEN NOTIFICATION
This Written Notification is provided to the RTD Board Chair and to the RTD
Board Office Executive Manager pursuant to and consistent with Article V, Section
3(b) of the RTD Bylaws that the below-named RTD Directors hereby request that the
following Action Item be added to the Agenda for the Operations/Customer Service
Committee to be held on -November 12, 2109, to wit:
It is recommended by Directors Buzek, Cook, Guissinger, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Whitmore, Williams, and Chair Tisdale at the Operations/Customer Services
Committee meeting, that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
take all necessary steps to design and implement a Promotional Fare Pilot Program
(“PFPP”) and to deploy the first project in the program on the North Metro Line
commencing from its opening date and continuing for a period of six (6) months
thereafter.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Increase Ridership

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Board Action - Signature Page (4002 : Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) for North Metro Line)

Board of Directors

2.13.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

November 6, 2019

Subject:

Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: November 6, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors adopts
the attached 2020 Proposed Performance Report and the accompanying performance measures for
mission statement goals 1-7. In 2020, there are 42 proposed performance measures to be tracked for
the GM, which is one higher than for 2019.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Service
BACKGROUND
Each year the RTD Board of Directors adopts a vision and mission statement, goals, objectives, and
specific performance measures. These performance measures provide a framework in which RTD can
determine how well it provides service to its passengers and the citizens of the District within the
context of its mission statement, and they should integrate with the Board’s priorities for the coming
year.
A report detailing year-to-date performance on each of these measures is presented to the Board of
Directors following the end of each quarter. The proposed performance measures for 2020 are brought
to the Board of Directors for review at this time because the measures are used in development of the
2020 Budget. These final 2020 performance measures are being presented to the Board at the
November 12th Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting with a request to forward to the
Board for adoption on November 19th.
DISCUSSION
Recommended changes in the performance measures from 2019 to 2020 are listed below:


Goal 1.4 Reduce the number of light rail accidents
o It is recommended that the measure be changed from reporting preventable light rail
accidents per 100,000 train miles to reporting the actual number of preventable accidents
regardless of miles and that the measure be changed from ≤ 2.0 to ≤ 3.0 in 2020.



Goal 1.5 Reduce the number of commuter rail accidents
o It is recommended that the measure be changed from reporting preventable commuter rail
accidents per 100,000 train miles to reporting the actual number of preventable accidents
regardless of miles and that the measure be changed from ≤ 2.0 to ≤ 3.0 in 2020.



Goal 6.2 Increase in ridership
o It is recommended that the ridership increase for 2020 be established at 2.1% based on
estimates for ridership for 2019 and 2020. Overall system ridership is projected to be flat

Packet Pg. 40

2.13.E

for the Base System with any ridership increases attributed to FasTracks. Full-year G Line
and SERE numbers are factored in as well as mid-year opening of the N line. The measure
includes all passenger boardings not limited to revenue ridership; ridership estimates for
the Mall Shuttle and Free MetroRide are included.


Goal 6.3 Increase in fare revenue and total operating revenue
o It is recommended that the fare revenue increase for 2020 be established at 2.6%. This is
the percentage increase in estimated fare revenue over the 2019 projection. It is based on
ridership estimates and assumes full-year ridership for the G Line and SERE and half-year
ridership for the N Line.
o It is recommended that the total operating revenue increase for 2020 be established at
2.4%. This is the percentage increase in total operating revenue in the 2020 Budget over
the 2019 projection.



Goal 6.5 Maintain bus/light rail operator headcount and bus mechanic headcount within
authorization.
o A change is proposed to add the measurement of Light Rail operator vacancies at ≤ 5.0%
and light rail operators over headcount at ≤ 4.0%. This mirrors the same measure for bus
operators. It is deemed relevant due to system growth and the need to monitor operator
hiring in current labor markets.

With the addition of the measurement for light rail operator vacancies/headcount, there will be 42
proposed performance measures to be tracked for the GM which is one higher than for 2019.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2020 performance measures are being utilized in the development of the final 2020 Adopted
Budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopts the attached 2020 Proposed Performance Report and the performance measures
included for mission statement goals 1-7. In 2020, there are 42 proposed performance measures
to be tracked for the GM.
2. Do not adopt the 2020 Proposed Performance Report and the accompanying performance
measures. This is not the recommended action because it results in no measures for ridership,
fare revenue, and total operating revenue and does not aid in the development of the 2020
budget.

ATTACHMENTS:


2020 proposed performance measures

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager, Budget and Financial Analysis
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 41

2.13.E

Packet Pg. 42

2.13.E.a

2020 PROPOSED PERFORMANCE REPORT
RTD Vision

RTD Mission Statement

To meet our constituents’ present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost-effective service throughout the District.

GOAL 1: To meet the present transportation needs of the district by providing safe
transportation service.
Objectives:
♦ Reduce vehicle accident ratio
♦ Increase preventive maintenance
♦ Reduce passenger accident ratio
♦ Improve light rail safety
♦ Improve employee safety

Performance Measures:
1.1 Reduce the number of safety incidents.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Vehicle Accident Involvements per 100,000 miles – Preventable1
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont
Passenger Accident Ratio per 100,000 miles – System-wide
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit - Longmont

0.99
0.99
1.01
0.99
1.08
1.19
0.11
0.14
0.08
0.07
0.19
0.00

1.38
1.3
1.2
1.5
1.7
1.2
0.14
0.12
0.02
0.23
0.06
0.11

≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18

1.7
1.5
1.2
0.8
2.1
0.7
0.13
0.11
0.04
0.19
0.08
0.07

2020
Proposed
Goal
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤2.0
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18
≤0.18

Operator-Passenger Assault Ratio per 100,000 boardings1
0.04
0.04
≤0.06
0.02
≤0.06
1 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of road, weather or
traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
1
Packet Pg. 43
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

To deliver regional multi-modal transportation services and infrastructure improvements that significantly
and continually increase transit market share.

2.13.E.a

GOAL 1: To meet the present transportation needs of the district by providing safe
transportation service.

1.2 Percentage of Preventive Maintenance inspections
2017
2018
incurred as scheduled every 6,000 miles.1
Actual
Actual
(Department: Bus Operations)
Percentage of Preventive Maintenance inspections incurred as
scheduled every 6,000 miles – system wide
99.6%
99.2%
RTD
99.0%
99.0%
First Transit - Commerce City
100.0%
99.6%
Transdev (fka Veolia)
99.3%
97.3%
First Transit – Denver
99.9%
100.0%
First Transit – Longmont
100.0%
100.0%
1 Inspections are scheduled 600 miles prior to 6,000 miles or 600 miles after 6,000 miles.

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

2020
Proposed
Goal

98%
98%
98%
98%
98%
98%

98.7%
96.0%
99.8%
100.0%
100.0%
98.7%

98%
98%
98%
98%
98%
98%

1.3 Improve response time to emergency dispatch calls.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Average Response Time

18 sec.

18 sec.

≤20 sec.

17 sec.

2020
Proposed
Goal
≤20 sec.

1.4 Reduce the number of light rail accidents.
(Department: Rail Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Reportable Light Rail Accidents – Preventable2
0.0
0.0
≤2.0
0
2 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of road, weather
or traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers. Please note: there was one preventable accident in Q1-19
(January) and one preventable accident in Q2-19 (June). Due to criteria listed it was not reportable.

1.5 Reduce the number of commuter rail accidents.
(Department: Rail Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Reportable Commuter Rail Accidents – Preventable3
0.0
0.0
≤2.0
0
3 An accident is considered preventable any time the operator was not driving in full compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations and in such a manner as to avoid involvement despite adverse conditions of
road, weather or traffic or the errors of pedestrians or other drivers.

2020
Proposed
Goal
≤3.0

2020
Proposed
Goal
≤3.0

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
2
Packet Pg. 44
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

2.13.E.a

Objectives:
♦ Prompt graffiti removal
♦ Prompt bus interior and exterior cleaning
♦ Prompt shelter cleaning

Performance Measures:
2.1 Prompt response to facility complaints.
(Department: Capital Programs)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Average Response Time Public Complaints
Average Graffiti Complaints per Month
Average Facilities Maintenance Complaints per Month1

<4 hours
0.6
9.2

<4 hours
1.6
13.5

≤4 hours
≤3.0
≤20.0

<4 hours
1.8
10.7

Elevator

3.3

2.0

Snow/ice

0.0

1.7

0

Shelter

0.3

4.0

3.0

Other1
1 The majority of Other is lighting and paving issues.

5.7

5.01

8.01

2.2 Prompt response to vehicle complaints.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Average Overdue Bus Interior Cleaning per Month
RTD
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont

0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0

0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

2020
Proposed
Goal
≤4 hours
≤3.0
≤20.0

1.3

2020
Proposed
Goal
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0
≤1.0

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
3
Packet Pg. 45
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

GOAL 2: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing clean
Transportation service.

2.13.E.a

Objectives:
♦ Improve on-time performance
♦ Improve miles between lost service road calls
♦ Decrease number of missed trips

Performance Measures:
3.1 Maintain system-wide on time performance.
(Departments: Bus Operations, Rail Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Local On-Time Service – System-wide1
RTD Local
First Transit - Commerce City
Transdev (fka Veolia)
First Transit – Denver
First Transit – Longmont
Regional On-Time Service1
Light Rail On-Time Service1

86.1%
84.8%
83.3%
88.2%
87.5%
88.2%
86.3%
94.5%

86.8%
86.2%
83.4%
87.5%
87.5%
89.5%
87.0%
92.6%

86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
88.0%
90.0%

87.9%
88.4%
85.4%
88.2%
88.4%
90.1%
88.8%
91.0%

2020
Proposed
Goal
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
86.0%
88.0%
90.0%

Commuter Rail On-Time Service2
95.1%
97.4%
90.0%
93.6%
1 Bus and Light Rail are considered on-time if a departure from a location is no more than 1 minute early or 5 minutes
after the scheduled departure time.
2 Commuter Rail is considered on-time if a departure from a location is no more than 0 minutes early or 5 minutes
after the scheduled departure time.

90.0%

3.2 Maintain system-wide service availability.
(Department: Bus Operations, Rail Operations)

2020
Proposed
Goal
99.0%
97.0%
97.0%

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Light Rail – Service Available3
99.9%
99.9%
99.0%
4
Bus – Service Available
99.5%
99.2%
97.0%
Commuter Rail – Service Available
98.5%
98.9%
97.0%
3 Calculated as total operating hours minus service delay hours, divided by total scheduled hours.
4 Calculated as actual car miles operated divided by total scheduled car miles.

99.9%
97.2%
97.3%

3.3 Adherence to scheduled Revenue Service trip start time.
(Department: Bus Operations)
Adherence to scheduled Revenue Service trip start time – system
wide
RTD

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

2020
Proposed
Goal

100%

99.5%

99.0%

99.6%

99.0%

N/A

99.6%

99.0%

N/A

99.5%
N/A

99.0%

First Transit - Commerce City

99.0%

N/A

99.0%

Transdev (fka Veolia)

N/A

N/A

99.0%

N/A

99.0%

First Transit – Denver

N/A

N/A

99.0%

N/A

N/A
N/A

99.0%

First Transit – Longmont

99.0%

N/A

99.0%

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
4
Packet Pg. 46
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

GOAL 3: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing reliable
transportation service.

2.13.E.a

GOAL 3: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing reliable
transportation service.

3.4 Improve miles between road calls.
(Departments: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

2020
Proposed
Goal

Mileage Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (District)1,3

46,356

37,013

30,000

34,874

30,000

RTD
Transit Bus
Articulated Bus
Intercity Bus

55,093
47,965
45,325
81,596

37,964
33,346
33,117
52,450

30,000

33,108
36,358
19,486
37,734

30,000

First Transit - Commerce City

45,993

40,668

30,000

32,463

30,000

Transit Bus

45,992

40,668

32,463

Cutaway Bus

N/A

N/A

N/A

Transdev (fka Veolia)
Transit Bus
Medium Bus

32,775
32,913
32,478

22,737
27,487
16,514

30,000

46,010
52,933
23,109

30,000

First Transit – Denver
Transit Bus
Medium Bus

35,735
39,170
21,334

68,282
70,417
40,101

30,000

35,332
36,136
22,673

30,000

First Transit – Longmont
Transit Bus
Medium Bus
Cutaway Bus

39,767
65,866
24,108
N/A

37,110
50,195
22,156
N/A

30,000

27,459
33,151
17,338
N/A

30,000

Hours Between Lost Service Maintenance Road Calls (Mall)2
2,896
2,641
≥600
2,436
1 District-wide mileage between lost service maintenance road calls excludes the Mall Shuttles.
2 Maintenance effectiveness for the Sixteenth Street Mall Shuttle is measured in terms of service hours.
3 Average age of the fleet follows:

≥600

2019 Quantity 2019 Average 2020 Quantity 2020 Average
Age
Age
Fleet Average Number of Buses and Average Age4

1026

6.53

RTD - Boulder
RTD – Platte (including Mall Shuttle)
RTD – East Metro
First Transit - Commerce City

122
272
197
115

4.27
4.94
4.16
7.75

First Transit - Denver

128

10.07

First Transit – Longmont

81

13.02

Transdev (fka Veolia)

111

7.51

Mall Shuttles
36
4 The Board of Directors does not adopt goals for these; informational only.

3

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
5
Packet Pg. 47
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

2.13.E.a

Objectives:
♦ Reduce customer response time
♦ Limit customer complaints
♦ Decrease average wait time for telephone information
♦ Complete installation of shelter boards by date of service change

Performance Measures:
4.1 Reduce average customer response time.
(Department: Communications)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

45

24

≤65

26

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

2020
Proposed
Goal

Avg. Response Time to Customer Complaints1
Average Cycle Time

10.7 days

8.8 days

≤ 10 days

8.07 days

≤ 10 days

RTD Transportation (Bus and Rail)
RTD All Other Departments
First Transit – Commerce City
First Transit - Denver
First Transit - Longmont
Transdev (fka Veolia)
Complaints per Boardings (District)2

7.4
18.3
8.7
7.5
8.1
8.1
.0004

7.53
11.81
8.02
6.76
6.47
9.24
.0004

.0004

7.51
11.56
4.69
6.29
7.11
4.10
N/A

.0004

Average TIC Speed of Answer (in seconds)

4.2 Reduce level of customer complaints.
(Departments: Bus Operations, Communications)

2020
Proposed
Goal
≤65

RTD
Local
Regional

.0003
.0003
.0003

.0004

.0004

First Transit - Commerce City
Local
Regional

.0004

.0004

.0004

Transdev (fka Veolia)
Local
Regional

.0004

.0004

.0004

First Transit – Denver
Local
Regional

.0004

.0004

.0004

First Transit – Longmont
.0002
.0004
.0004
Local
1 The measure reports on resolution of customer complaints across all subject matter throughout the District and the
number includes all departments utilizing TrapezeCOM system for commendation and complaint research.
2 Q2 results are unavailable at this time because ridership is being reported in total and there is no breakdown between
local and regional. Complaints are being reported by carrier but only on local service. We are working on obtaining this
data in a manner that meets the reporting requirement.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
6
Packet Pg. 48
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

GOAL 4: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing courteous
transportation service.

2.13.E.a

GOAL 4: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing courteous
transportation service.

4.3 Complete installation of shelterboards by date of service change.
(Department: Customer Service)
Implementation scheduled for January 2020, May 2020, and August 2020 dates.

GOAL 5: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing accessible
transportation support service.
Objectives:
♦ Improve on-time performance standards
♦ Improve ADA trip availability
♦ Improve ADA courtesy

Performance Measures:
5.1 Improve ADA on-time performance.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

5.2 Improve ADA trip availability.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Adherence to ADA mandate to have zero denials to service request

100%

100%

100%

100%

5.3 Improve ADA courtesy.
(Department: Bus Operations)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Average ADA complaints per boarding
2 Staffing challenges led to a higher number of complaints.

0.001

0.001

0.001

0.0022

2020
Proposed
Goal
Access-a-Ride Passenger On-time Service
N/A
86.6%
86.0%
84.5%1
86.0%
1Affected by lack of adequate staffing levels to cover runs, high rate of operators on FMLA, and the increasing number of trips
requested during peak travel hours along with the limitations of our current software to smooth that demand.

2020
Proposed
Goal
100%

2020
Proposed
Goal
0.001

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
7
Packet Pg. 49
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

2.13.E.a

Objectives:
♦ Maintain cost recovery ratios
♦ Increase ridership
♦ Increase farebox and EcoPass revenue
♦ Improve route efficiency
♦ Monitor selected internal functions for efficiency
♦ Maintain cost effective and efficient transportation services
♦ Hire and train competent personnel

Performance Measures:
6.1 Maintain all required recovery ratios.1
(Department: Finance)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Operating Cost Recovery Ratio
26.9%
24.0%
20%
22.4%
SB154 Cost Recovery Ratio
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
1 Operating cost recovery ratio is defined as farebox revenues (excluding ADA), advertising revenues, and other
operating revenues divided by operating and administrative costs, depreciation on bus operations assets, excluding
ADA costs, rapid transit planning costs, and interest payments on rapid transit assets.
SB 154 Cost Recovery ratio is defined as farebox revenues (excluding ADA), advertising revenues, federal operating
grants, federal formula bus grants, other operating revenues, and investment income divided by operating and
administrative costs, depreciation on bus operations assets, excluding ADA costs, rapid transit planning costs, and
interest payments on rapid transit assets. The required ratio is 30% and the calculation will be provided with the
Financial Status Reports at the end of each calendar quarter only. Goal is whether ratio is met by yes/no indication.

6.2 Increase in ridership.
(Department: Finance)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Overall Ridership Increase

(1.9%)

(1.4%)

4.1%

(3.5%)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

4.2%
4.9%

2.7%
2.9%

14.2%4
13.6%

5.4%
4.0%

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

100%

90%

100%

50%

6.3 Increase in fare revenue and total operating revenue.
(Departments: Finance, Communications)
Fare Revenue
Total Operating Revenue

6.4 Monitor selected internal functions for efficiency.
(Department: Communications)
Audits

2020
Proposed
Goal
20%
Yes

2020
Proposed
Goal
2.1%

2020
Proposed
Goal
2.6%
2.4%

2020
Proposed
Goal
100%

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
8
Packet Pg. 50
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

GOAL 6: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing cost-effective
and efficient transportation service.

2.13.E.a

GOAL 6: To meet the present transportation needs of the District by providing cost-effective
and efficient transportation service.

6.5 Maintain bus/light rail operator headcount and bus
mechanic headcount within authorization.1
(Department: Bus Operations and Rail Operations)
Bus Operator – Vacancies

2

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

2020
Proposed
Goal

11.3%

10.2%

≤5.0%

8.4%

≤5.0%

Bus Operator – Over Headcount

0.0%

0.0%

≤4.0%

0.0%

≤4.0%

Bus Mechanic – Vacancies
Bus Mechanic – Over Headcount

11.5%
0.0%

13.5%
0.0%

≤7.5%
≤0.0%

15.4%
0.0%

≤7.5%
≤0.0%

2

Light Rail Operator – Vacancies
Light Rail Operator – Over Headcount
1 Authorized headcount represents the level of personnel required to meet service demands in the current runboard.
2 Human Resources has been authorized to exceed authorized headcount to compensate for operator attrition.

6.6 Maintain stock-out level.
(Department: Administration)

2017
Actual

2018
Actual

2019
Goal

YTD 2nd
Quarter

Stock-Out Level3
0.9%
1.0%
3 Calculated as number of stock-out occurrences divided by number of requests.

1.5%

1.1%

≤5.0%
≤4.0%

2020
Proposed
Goal
1.5%

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
9
Packet Pg. 51
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures (continued):

2.13.E.a

GOAL 7: To meet the future transportation needs of the District.

7.1 Deliver civic and neighborhood presentations to
2017
2018
2019
YTD 2nd
communicate with the public regarding service issues.
Actual
Actual
Goal
Quarter
(Departments: Communications, Executive Office, Bus
Operations, Planning)
Communications
659
200
§
74
General Manager
78
236
§
160
Service Change
19
18
§
4
Route and Service Planning
125
72
§
22
Local Government Planning Workshops
3
3
3
1*
Community Advisory Committee Meetings
10
10
4
6
Info Rides
49
29
§
11
§ The Board of Directors does not adopt goals for these performance measures; for reporting purposes only.
*First meeting held May 15, 2019

7.2 Accurate Financial Analysis
(Department: Finance)
Distinguished Budget Presentation Award

Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting

2020
Proposed
Goal
§
§
§
§
3
4
§

2019
Goal

2020 Proposed
Goal

Receive Distinguished Budget
Presentation Award from the
Government Finance Officers
Association by year-end.
Receive Certificate of
Achievement for Excellence In
Financial Reporting from the
Government Finance Officers
Association by year-end.

Receive Distinguished Budget
Presentation Award from the
Government Finance Officers
Association by year-end.
Receive Certificate of
Achievement for Excellence In
Financial Reporting from the
Government Finance Officers
Association by year-end.

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
2020 Proposed Performance Measures
10
Packet Pg. 52
November 12, 2019

Attachment: 2020 proposed performance measures (4001 : Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures)

Performance Measures:

