2024-07-30
Special Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening. I will now call the Tuesday, July 30, special board meeting to order. We
are convened as of 4:05 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone who is attending
here to please remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. I will now call for the roll. Treasurer
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek is an excused absence. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick is absent. Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal. He is absent. Director Ruscha. Director Ruscha is absent. Director
Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. And this is Chair Davidson. I am also present. That is 11 present and 4
absent. We do have a quorum. Please note that the special board meeting does have a section for public
comment this afternoon. However, anyone who would like to address the board can still do so at the
regularly scheduled July board meeting, which will happen after this meeting.
The public can still offer their comments in person. We're going to move to the public comment section. A
public comment period was noticed for this meeting, which is open to anyone who would like to address
the board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments can go first, followed by
those participating remotely. For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name
is called.
If you have not already signed up to speak and would like to do so may approach the podium when I call
for an additional speakers. For those attending virtually, you may raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
the phone if you're interested to speak and staff will unmute you when it is your turn. Please bear in mind
that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. And if you do not wish to be recorded, your
comments will have to be submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference material for the board, or if any member of the public would
like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the email address
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. During this time, the board will not offer any direct comments or
responses. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, you may email the
Board Office.
Given that this is a special board meeting, we will be providing speakers with up to one minute to speak.
Although, as previously noted, if you would like to address the board in the regularly scheduled board
meeting to follow this special board meeting, you may have longer. At this time, I'll ask the Board Office,
has anybody signed up to speak or do we see any hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Dr. Davidson, this is Jack Kroll, executive manager at the Board Office. There is no one
present who has signed up to provide public comment. And at this time, I do not see any hands raised
online for comment. Additionally, you did not receive any written comment in advance of this meeting. You
did, however, receive comment for your subsequent meeting. I'll cover that at 5:30. And I also want to note
for the record that Director Ruscha is here. She's just over in the executive session.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you. With that being noted, thank you, Mr. Kroll. I will note Director Ruscha's
presence as stated and update 12 directors present and 3 absent. And with that being noted that no public
comment has been received or hands raised, we will close the public comment period and move to our
executive session.
In a moment, the board will meet in executive session regarding the successor collective bargaining
agreement with the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001. I would like to append the motion to move into
executive session to state that the special board meeting will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into
the executive session.
For public transparency, this means that once the Board moves into executive session, the main meeting
will be adjourned. For anyone who might be in the room or remote, the regularly scheduled May board
meeting-- I'm sorry, not May; we are in July-- July board meeting will occur after this meeting with the
anticipated start time of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. So please know that we will be back.

I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following, pursuant to Section
24-6-402, subsection 4, paragraph B Colorado Revised Statutes and section 24-6-402, subsection 4,
paragraph exercise for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations
regarding the successor collective bargaining agreement for the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001.
Do we have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman has the movement, and I have the second as Treasurer Bouquet.
Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, we will move into executive session. For all those who
are expected to attend, would you please stay seated? And for everyone else, would you please vacate the
room or virtual session at this time and take all your belongings with you?
At this time, please give us between 5 and 10 minutes to arrange the technical switch over from this special
board meeting to our executive session. Thank you.
If everyone could just stay seated. Thank you for your patience. We will reconvene in a moment.

