Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Monday, January 8, 2007 Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

January 8, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Monday, January 8, 2007 at 5:30 p.m. in 3rd Floor Conference Room.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Bill Christopher, Vice Chairman; Chris Martinez, Neill Quinlan, Barbara
Brohl, Lee Kemp, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Daryl Kinton, Bill
McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Marla Lien, Jennifer Heisler, Phil Washington,
Brian Iacono, Bob Medina, John Dawson, James Stadler, Liz Telford,
Dave Shelley, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Bill Van Meter, Larry Warner,
Pauletta Tonilas, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jeff Leib, Don Ulrich, Joe Racosky, Stacey Pocrass,
Brad Gibson, Mark Bundy, Steve Lockton, Kevin Shane, Greg Ball,
Peter French, Terry Doherty, John Flocco, David Benson, Mike Phillips
****

Call to Order:

Vice Chairman Christopher called the meeting to order at 5:36 p.m.

I.

Recommended Actions:
 Recommendation for Contract Award to Marsh USA for Insurance Brokerage
and Administrative Services – Cal Marsella introduced this action. He
distributed a memo regarding concerns raised at the November Board
Meeting regarding this action. The memo is available for viewing in the
FasTracks Monitoring Committee Minute Notebook.
It is Recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to award to Marsh, USA a 5 year
contract with a 5 year option to provide Professional Services for Insurance
Brokerage and Administrative Services on a Rolling Owner Controlled
Insurance Program (ROCIP).
Motion:

Director Pulliam
made a motion for
full approval before
the Board.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Monday, January 8, 2007 Page 2 of 3
Second:

Vote on
Motion:

Director McMullen
seconded the
motion.

5 in favor (Directors Elfenbein,
Pulliam, Kemp,
McMullen and
Quinlan). 4 opposed
(Christopher,
Martinez, Kinton,
and Ruchman)
(Director Yamrick
came in after the
vote)

Discussion: Director Ruchman thought alternative two – do not accept the
recommended action, was chosen and wanted to know what happened after
the recommended action was not accepted. Director Christopher clarified that
the item had been referred back to committee from the previous Board meeting.
Directors Christopher and Martinez also had concerns about the justification of
the price.
Updates:
 Program Management Assessment – Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager
Planning and Development distributed a memo outlining the Program
Assessment and Baseline Re-Evaluation work program. This memo is
available for viewing in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting
Minutes Notebook. The Board will be briefed in April 2007 and be asked to
provide direction on a summary of the team’s review and recommendation.
Board members present expressed support for the Assessment given the
concerns about escalating costs and schedules.


Stakeholder Participation Policy – Pauletta Tonilas, FasTracks Public
Information Manager, spoke to this item. The FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee approved the policy at their December 14, 2006 meeting. Staff
is asking the Board for feedback and comments and would like to receive
these by January 24, 2007. The policy will come to the Board for approval
in February 2007.



Gold Line and N. Metro Alternatives Screening – Liz Telford, Manager of
Corridor Planning gave a briefing on the Gold Line Environmental Impact
Statement. A presentation regarding this was distributed to the Committee
members. The presentation is available for viewing in the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook. The four alternative

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Monday, January 8, 2007 Page 3 of 3
alignments were discussed as well as the alternative technologies. The next
steps will be intensified outreach to neighborhoods along the alignment
throughout the month of January and then public meetings in February
regarding the detailed evaluation.
Dave Shelley, Manager, Corridor Planning, gave a briefing on the North
Metro Corridor. The presentation is available for viewing in the FasTracks
Monitoring Meeting Minutes Notebook. The EIS process and scheduled was
reviewed. Currently, the EIS is in the Alternatives Screening phase which
will be completed in March of 2007.
III.

Other Matters - No other matters were discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
will be determined at a later date.

V

Adjournment – Vice Chairman Christopher adjourned the meeting at 7:13 p.m.

