Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
August 20, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Lloyd Nunley – Certified FM Mechanic – 25 years

V.

Public Participation
Don Hunt – Executive Director for CDOT (15 minutes)

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede/Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 16, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Donation of Vintage Rail

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to donate vintage rail, tie
plates and wooden ties for restoration purposes to Como Depot.
B.

Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of Access-a-Ride Call Center services with First Transit, Inc. This contract is for
three years, with two one-year options for a total 5-year amount not to exceed
$11,074,125. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal
received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-DH-026, to provide “Access-a-Ride
Call Center” Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective
October 1, 2013.

XII.

Recommended Action
C.

Property Acquisition for the I-225 Project

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the I-225 Segment 2 Light Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with
all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
D.
Sublease Agreement (RTD Park and Ride Facilities) by and between Regional
Transportation District and Stadium Management Company, LLC
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Sublease Agreement for parking with the Stadium Management
Company (SMC) on certain real property, commonly known as Sports Authority Field at
Mile High and certain parking lots proximate to the Stadium all located in the City and
County of Denver, State of Colorado. Said Subleased Premises will be leased for the
purpose of operating parking facilities for use by commuters. Funding for this lease in
2013 is included in the 2013 Amended Budget for FasTracks operations, and future year
funding will be included in future year FasTracks operating budgets.
E.

Award Contract to Supply 103 Cutaway Buses for access-a-Ride Service

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract
to Supreme Bus for the purchase of up to 103 new cutaway buses for the access-aRide service in the amount not to exceed $5,228,589, with an option to purchase up
to 350 additional cutaway buses over a five year period.

F.

Award Contract to Supply 52 – 60’ Low-Floor Articulated Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to New
Flyer of America Inc. for the purchase of 52 – 60’ low-floor articulated buses and
associated spare components in the amount not to exceed $34,636,614, with an option
to purchase up to 140 additional articulated buses over a five year period.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

