1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
August 20, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Anderson requested everyone to stand to say the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Paula Perdue called roll. There were 10 Board members present at roll call and 5 absent.
Director James arrived late and Directors Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Absent

5:28 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Absent
Present

5:32 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:29 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:55 PM
5:33 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Absent
Present

5:33 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:31 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:26 PM

5:27 PM

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Lacy Bell, Larry Buter, Jesse Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn
Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Terry
Howerter, Robbie Hunter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Mitch Kuharski, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tara Miller, Kirk Nickerson, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Dean Shaklee, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Lisa Trujillo, Phil
Washington
OTHERS PRESENT
Marcellinus Andrew, Louis Apolinar, Belita Bennett, Brady Bratcher, Ed Bush, Scot
Cuthbertson, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Don Hunt,
Ricky Martinez, Jeff Miller, Mike Newman, John Prosser, Kenny Shepard, Chris Taylor, Joe
Triplett, Jim Toweill, Gary Van Dorn, Monte Whaley

IV.

Retiree Awards
There were no retirees present for this meeting. Chair Anderson recognized Lloyd Nunley,
certified FM Mechanic with 25 years of experience. The Board thanked him for a job well
done.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Anderson welcomed Don Hunt, Executive Director for CDOT.
Don Hunt stated that on behalf of Governor Hickenlooper administration, he wanted to
express his appreciation to RTD for a partnership unmatched. He shared that RTD has
generated a level of excitement in transit and transportation that he believes has kept his
CDOT engineers engaged and founded.
Don Hunt shared that about a year ago when RTD was considering a sales tax, he had
talked with General Manager Washington about problems on the highway side too and if
they can do a joint effort. The timing proved not to be right for this venture. As he
traveled the state, he received feedback from others that they wanted to be included in
the efforts also. He has received the support from Governor Hickenlooper to educate and
stomp the weeds to see what kind of traction this idea might get. While there are many
challenges, MPACT 64 seems to be taking hold and has received support from various
groups like the Metro Mayors Caucus, and other large economic development in the state.
The Colorado Transportation Coalition did a statewide telephone survey and plan to do
another one in the fall. RTD enjoyed a positive approval rate of 70%. When they looked
at ways to fund transportation, people were highly opposed to a gasoline tax. They also
wanted something that would be inclusive in one package and not keep going out to the
taxpayers for a sales tax hike. The proposed sales tax with MPACT 64 would amount to
an additional penny and would sunset. It would be specific to a set of projects. Don Hunt

provided information on how this tax would breakdown or be distributed. General
Manager Washington will follow-up with the Board on this distribution.
Don Hunt emphasized there are still a lot of things to be worked out and they have a long
way to go. He believes that MPACT 64 will be an initiative for the 2014 ballot.
Questions from Board Members:
Director Hoy requested a chart with the various breakdowns that are part of the MPACT
64.
Director Lubow asked two questions pertaining to CDOT:
1. She noted that there has been discussion about the idea of a rail north to
Loveland and Fort Collins. She asked if he could speak to that and how this
tax would affect the future of that train.
Don Hunt responded they are doing a study now looking at options for the
state to connect with the RTD System. There are several options out there
(North line to Loveland/Fort Collins, South line to Colorado Springs, and
West line into the mountains) but over the next 12 months, CDOT needs to
pick one and stick to it. No decision has currently been made at this point.
2. Director Lubow also commented about the HOV-3 discussion for US 36.
She is the Director who is receiving correspondence from lots of irate
customers. How did CDOT choose to communicate this issue and what can
they do to better communicate to their constituents? Don Hunt responded
his team had made the hard decision for a managed line to carry BRT
service. They had looked at the obstacles to be able to deliver this service.
They talked to and evaluated service triggers and inevitably made the
decision to go to HOV-3. The transportation Commissioners and HPTE were
in agreement that we need to look at HOV-3. This decision also brings with
it some financial benefits as well.
Director Solano commented on the I-70 overpass realignment and some of the other
construction jobs on the table, including RTD projects. He asked how this interface will
occur. Don Hunt responded there are a lot of schedules and work that each of these
organizations are doing. However, this is a coordinated effort and at the right points, all of
this will come together.
Director Solano inquired about the marijuana tax and if that could replace fuel tax. Don
Hunt responded that this would be a special tax that goes to support the regulation of the
product and the general sales tax would go into the state general fund. CDOT does not
receive any funding from the general fund.

Director Deadwyler inquired what our gas tax was. Don Hunt responded we get 22 cents
for the state and 18 cents for the federal. He also stated that Colorado was near the
bottom on gas tax. We are down about 30%.
Director Folska inquired what penalties would be in place for violation of the HOV lanes.
Don Hunt stated they have not set any specific fines. Riders will have to use transponders
visible to the police, etc. and there will need to be controls.
Director Rivera-Malpiede commented she is interested in Transportation Demand
Management and asked if CDOT was focusing on the whole thing. Don Hunt responded
they look at a lot of things that included bicycle trails, US 36 HOV, and other pedestrian
avenues. It is CDOT’s culture to want to do projects. He has started a new division of
transportation system and operations. Their focus is to look for cost effective ways to get
more out of the system. As an example, they have started increasing information to
travelers using the I-70 corridor in the mountains. They provide information on peak
hours, traffic delays, best time to avoid traffic, etc. They have knocked down about 45
minutes on the delay coming from the mountains through this education process. There is
a CDOT global app that travelers can use as well.
Director Walker asked if the projects selected were all or nothing. Don Hunt responded
CDOT has a project list and will have a “B” list. RTD will need to have a project list as
well. Director Walker asked if there will be a theme. Dome Hunt responded the theme is
economic development and safety particularly rural road safety. There will be some
consideration for bicycle trails and pedestrian improvements. The Governor wants a clear
amount that will be dedicated to these efforts.
Chair Anderson thanked Don Hunt for speaking to the Board and enlightening them on
MPACT 64. We appreciate the great partnership with CDOT and look forward to working
with them on this issue.
Chair Anderson then opened the meeting up for public participation.
Jim Toweill, RMR Ironworkers, spoke about the current status of the RMR projects. He
shared there is another violation coming from the DUS project that shows this is a clear
consistent practice on RMR’s side. They have paid restitution each year since 2010 and
this indicates this is their business model.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede/Director Deadwyler

Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Bagley was out of town so there was no General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Report.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 16, 2013
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the regular
Board meeting minutes from July 16, 2013.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report




Chair Anderson shared that on August 8, Director Hoy had participated in the rider
appreciation day at the Westminster park-n-ride.
Chair Anderson, Directors Hoy, Lasater and Tobiassen attended the Eagle P-3
elected official briefing.
August 17, a number of Board members attended the light rail roadeo Elati
Maintenance facility: Chair Anderson, Directors Daly, Folska, Rivera-Malpiede,
Tobiassen and Walker. She was impressed with the dedication of the staff.
















X.

August 19, Director Deadwyler was one of the keynote speakers for the Peoria
Crossing groundbreaking event. Other Board members in attendance included
Chair Anderson, Directors Rivera-Malpiede, Folska and Tobiassen. Mayor HancockDenver and Mayor Hogan-City of Aurora were also in attendance.
August 19, she spoke at the Boulder Depot Square TOD groundbreaking ceremony.
She and Director Lubow were in attendance. Both of these groundbreaking events
spoke to her of the good partnership that RTD has throughout this region.
The “halfway to opening day for Eagle P3 is August 22nd. She encouraged Board
members who plan to attend to take the bus.
August 23 is accident free day celebration at Platte Division.
September 14 is the bus and paratransit roadeo at District shops
September 18, the CDOT Commissioners will host a dinner meeting with the RTD
Board of Directors. This is an annual event and provides opportunity for discussion
of items on common ground.
Chair Anderson had the pleasure of serving on the APTA Nominating Committee for
Leadership roles with APTA. General Manager Washington was up for vice-chair so
she recused herself to avoid any appearance of conflict. General Manager
Washington was nominated by the committee as APTA vice-chair for 2014.
Chair Anderson had received feedback from some of her constituents about our
disposition of RTD property and assets. She wanted to reiterate that RTD has done
its disposition according to our disposition process. This involved sending out a RFI
on the disposition of tracks and the disposal of vintage rail. They received only 1
proposal for each. The proposal will not cost RTD any money and RTD will benefit
as we do not have to take care of the property.
Chair Anderson shared that she had the opportunity to give the welcoming remarks
at the Ethiopian Delegation visit this morning. She was impressed with the
professionalism of the engineering staff that provided the presentations. They
spoke to designing a project from ADA perspective and some of the lessons
learned. She was mindful of the statement made by Director Folska that systems
should be designed for the handicap or the most vulnerable rider and then it will
work for everyone else.

General Manager's Report




General Manager Washington reiterated the Ethiopian Delegation visit. He had
informed the Executive Committee last week of the meeting with dignitaries and
the technical type. The meeting was exemplary and focused on accessibility, ADA
and how do we provide service to the community of disabled riders. This group
was escorted by the State department and took a tour of DUS and a ride on the
West line. They had talked about establishing a sister transit agency relationship.
RTD will be hosting the Transit Chief Information Officers Consortium during
August 21-22. Phil will be speaking to this group next week.





XI.

RTD is the recipient of Colorado Society of Human resources Diversity Award for
2013. They received this award for a number of their programs that include the
Leadership Academy, MAX, internship program, WIN, supplier-diversity relationship,
and inclusiveness council.
A couple of days ago, a RTD bus was involved in a fatal accident with a
motorcycle. According to our information, the bus was proceeding through a green
light when it was hit by a motorcycle that went through a red light. The accident
was fatal. He has contacted the driver and extended our concerns and support as
he normally does in these types of situations.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Anderson called for a motion to approve the unanimous consent agreement.

Motion:

Director James made the motion to approve the
Unanimous consent agenda, items A&B.

Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Bill James, Director, District A
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
A.

Donation of Vintage Rail

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to donate vintage rail, tie
plates and wooden ties for restoration purposes to Como Depot.

B.

Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of Access-a-Ride Call Center services with First Transit, Inc. This contract is for
three years, with two one-year options for a total 5-year amount not to exceed
$11,074,125. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal
received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-DH-026, to provide “Access-a-Ride
Call Center” Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective
October 1, 2013.

XII.

Recommended Action
C.

Property Acquisition for the I-225 Project

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the I-225 Segment 2 Light Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with
all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve item C, property
acquisition for the I-225 Project.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion Passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
D.
Sublease Agreement (RTD Park and Ride Facilities) by and between Regional
Transportation District and Stadium Management Company, LLC
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Sublease Agreement for parking with the Stadium Management
Company (SMC) on certain real property, commonly known as Sports Authority Field at

Mile High and certain parking lots proximate to the Stadium all located in the City and
County of Denver, State of Colorado. Said Subleased Premises will be leased for the
purpose of operating parking facilities for use by commuters. Funding for this lease in
2013 is included in the 2013 Amended Budget for FasTracks operations, and future year
funding will be included in future year FasTracks operating budgets.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to sublease agreement by
and between RTD and the Stadium Management Company
LLC.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska noted the slight increase of the parking space
usage from 25 to 47. She stated she was troubled about the
deferred maintenance that RTD will have to do as part of our
state of good repair. Her bigger issue is she feels we need to
be negotiating directly with the seller and should ask for a 99
year lease where we would have better control.
Chair Anderson stated she initially had some issues but she
better understands the agreement and understands that after 3
years, if reasonable usage has not occurred, we can
renegotiate the use of this space. The cost to build our own
would be cost prohibitive.
General Manager Washington stated that RTD committed to
this space as a condition to accept the FFGA on the West
Line. The cost to acquire land and for construction is cost
prohibitive. This was a win-win negotiation for RTD. All of the
costs were factored into the price including the improvement
for our patrons. We believe students will adjust their travel
patterns and the lot will be more heavily used.
Director Folska stated she understands and agrees with most
of the comments. Her issue has to do with who we are in
business with. She agrees with the parking location and all
that but she feels we need a direct relationship. RTD needs a
more aggressive relationship with the direct partners.

General Manager Washington asked legal counsel Marla Lien
to comment. Marla Lien stated the party with the lease-hold
interest right now is the Broncos so that is who RTD
negotiated with. She explained if we were going to condemn

out a leaseholder interest then we could work with the owner.
Susan Altes provided clarification that SMC is a private entity.
We have already had discussion on having this direct
relationship and SMC said no. Our only remaining option to
work with the owner directly would be to condemn through
eminent domain.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 10 in favor (Anderson, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 1 against (Folska). Directors Bagley, Daly,
Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [10 TO 1]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Claudia Folska
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
E.

Award Contract to Supply 103 Cutaway Buses for access-a-Ride Service

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract
to Supreme Bus for the purchase of up to 103 new cutaway buses for the access-aRide service in the amount not to exceed $5,228,589, with an option to purchase up
to 350 additional cutaway buses over a five year period.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve item E,
award contract to supply 103 cutaway buses for access-aRide.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
F.

Award Contract to Supply 52 – 60’ Low-Floor Articulated Buses

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to New
Flyer of America Inc. for the purchase of 52 – 60’ low-floor articulated buses and
associated spare components in the amount not to exceed $34,636,614, with an option
to purchase up to 140 additional articulated buses over a five year period.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve item F,
Award contract to supply 52 -60’ low-floor articulated
buses.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business






XV.

Director Lasater thanked legal counsel Marla Lien for attending a meeting with the
HOA in his district. Unfortunately, he was not able to get into the meeting. He has
communicated with all of the people. Marla was able to provide information on the
annexation process.
Director James spoke to the shooting incident at Civic Park and applauded the
Mayor for his effort to address the issues. He thinks the RTD effort to improve the
Civic Center Plaza will help in this overall improvement.
Director Rivera-Malpiede invited the Board members to participate in the walk
Denver’s NEWALK Fest this weekend. This is a transportation demand management
opportunity to walk with the community, the Mayor, the Chief of Police and others.
RTD will be providing information on the routes in the area, ADA, etc.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

