2021-05-11 FAA
TAI SHRAE PARISH: We've started.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. The special meeting of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee, will now
come to order. We are convened at 5:31 Mountain Daylight Time, on May 11th 2021. I would respectfully
ask everyone to unmute yourselves, unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this
evening. Under our current COVID-19 circumstances, we are conducting official meetings of the RTD
board remotely. These meetings are held via Zoom, in our audio and video recorded. These along with
the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website, at our
rtd-denver.com, on the Board of Directors page which is located at the bottom of the main page.
Directors and members of staff, if you would like to be acknowledged, I ask you to please raise your
virtual hand and wait for me to call on you. Those participating by phone may press star 9. To talk your
mute setting, please press star 6. We will not be taking public comment during this meeting, but we will be
taking public comment immediately after this meeting, when we convene our regularly scheduled Board
meeting later this evening. So that would be the opportunity for the public to provide comment. I'd like to
begin the meeting with the short safety briefing. Experts say that we will need to continue wearing face
coverings and maintain physical distancing, a little while longer especially in indoor public settings.
Although face coverings are no longer required outdoors, we do encourage people to be cautious.
TSA has extended the federal mask requirement for public transportation, until September 13 2021. That
includes in the waiting areas, when waiting to board an RTD vehicle. We RTD do require that employees
and customers wear face coverings and are taking a cautious approach to returning to pre-pandemic
conditions. That said, transit continues to be an extremely safe way to travel and there have been no
clusters of positive cases linked to transit in our metro area. Please consider getting vaccinated if you
have not done so and continue with good practices a little while longer. At this point I believe we have
four team directors in attendance and we're waiting on Director Rosenthal to join us. When Director
Rosenthal does join, we will state that for the record. We have no action items this evening, we have one
discussion item, which is the reason we scheduled this special meeting.
Last year we had a legislative audit, that included a review of RTD's internal audit. One of those
recommendations was to conduct a peer review, per institute of Internal Auditors standards. We had not
had one conducted in some time, so we made a request in January to APTA to conduct such a review.
Tonight the team will present a summary of their work. But I'd like to turn the meeting over to General
Manager, CEO Debra Johnson, to introduce our APTA team on the topic. Miss Johnson please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening to all of you Board members
and to those that virtually are assembled. I am Debra Johnson and serve as the General Manager and
Chief Executive Officer, here at the Regional Transportation District. As you heard from Madam Chair, in
relationship to the most recently completed state audit, in light of the recommendations and findings that
were put forward, this was one element in which upon conference with the Board, I suggested that we
reached out to the American Public Transportation Association and leverage our subject matter experts
within our own industry, to garner a better understanding of how we might be able to capitalize and
optimize on improvements.

Recognizing when I joined this organization, I in turn also shared that I would be looking and taking a
cursory glance, at what opportunities that were before us. So this was serendipitous, in the sense of this
both came sort of on a parallel track. With that being said, I want to publicly acknowledge the work of our
panelists and our partners at APTA. I will speak more to that later at the conclusion of that presentation.
But now I will yield the floor, excuse me, to John Henry, who serves as the Chief Financial Officer of the
American Public Transportation Association. And I want to acknowledge also Doney Williams, who serves
as the Liaison at APTA, who help coordinate these activities. And just want to thank you all for your
steadfast partnership in this endeavor. So with that Mr Henry, I will yield the virtual floor to you, Thank
you.
JOHN HENRY: Thank you Miss Johnson, really appreciate it. Thank you Director Catlin, it's good seeing
you all. Thank you for allowing us a little bit of time to go through this presentation, in reference to the
internal audit. As many of you know, at the American Public Transportation Association, we do these peer
reviews on a number of different aspects, a number of different fronts, internal audit being one of them.
We pull in experts from the industry, individuals that work in systems of similar size, large or small, to
really get a much well-rounded value added expertise. And that's what was included in the presentation.
And then what we also did was for this presentation, we put it together to where it also can serve as a
reference point, as a reference document. So where members of the Board, as well as staff can refer
back to this document, with any questions or anything like that. And then is after, we're always here to
assist our members in these efforts, in this activity. With that, we can definitely begin the presentation.
Miss Johnson, do you want me to share my screen? Is that appropriate or-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes sir. I think that would be appropriate-JOHN HENRY: OK
DEBRA JOHNSON: For you guys to control the slides.
JOHN HENRY: So let me do that. So can everyone see that? Very good. So as I just mentioned, this was
the request of RTD to do a internal audit review. And now, as we say at a good steak dinner, let's just get
to the meat of the presentation. We put together an all star panel of individuals in the industry, Michael,
who was at MTA out of New York, Anthony, who is in greater Cleveland, much a great experience. And
then, also Elizabeth, who's here actually in WAMATA in DC. So these systems as you think about it,
encapsulate what RTD is now and what it's actually growing and becoming. So these individuals have
experienced and really seen a lot of what you all are experiencing actually at RTD.
The Peer Review Scope and Methodology. I won't spend a lot of time here so we can just get to the meat
of the discussion but really as I talked about we put together a very strong panel and we talked to actually
a good number of individuals at RTD. I want to thank Miss Johnson and Director Catlin and the staff at
RTD, they were very helpful, very forthcoming, actually sent us a lot of information that we could review
and walk through. And we sent that information back to RTD, we spent a lot of time on the phone and in
virtual calls, with a good number of staff and members of the team. So that really makes this process
really robust. So you can really get some good information that's value added.
And then the basic scope of the peer review, was for us to really address seven basic fundamental
questions, if you all know, seven questions are presented here. So what we tried to do in the report, was
address each individual question but at the same time give you a reference point. So when you want to
look back at this report, you can then refer back to the question and the actual page that addresses that
particular question. And in going throughout this process, we really relied heavily on the standards that

relate to internal audit. So the action items, the recommendations and things like that, that we'll get into in
a few minutes, are really based on those internal auditing standards and best practices that are really
done all throughout the industry. And then and I failed to mention actually Elizabeth, is actually the
Committee Chair of internal audit. So her as well as Michael, spend a lot of time actually going through
the process of developing and fine tuning the standards. So you really had some experts on this peer
review providing this information.
And just to highlight, as I just talked about a few minutes ago, we actually conducted 12 interviews from a
good number of individuals, all the way from the Board level, to Miss Johnson, to Director Catlin, also
other members of the Board, to a number of members of the senior management team, as well as the
external auditor. And this really helped us get a full picture of the assessment, what the need is and then
also talking about what our recommendations will be and should be for RTD. And thank you. Turn it over
to Mike, who will begin the process on the talk about the standards, as well as get in more detail in
reference to our recommendations. Mike?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Well, thank you, John, and thank you, everyone, for giving me the opportunity to be
in Denver, at least virtually. So better this way than any other way. So the question you all had, is what
standards as your internal audit department use? Well, we needed standards through this review as well.
And there's two worldwide standards that are acceptable. Number one, the international professional
practices framework, by the Institute of Internal Auditors. They are called the standards, called the red
book for those who heard it, that name. And then there's a quality assessment manual, that also spells
out the way that you would do a quality assurance review, which was one of your seven questions that
you had. How was adherence to the standards within this department. Those are the standards that we
use in order to do our assessment.
Next on. So, let me start with the conclusion. And then we'll, presentation will take you to the basis for
that. And we spent a lot of time as John said, looking at documents, looking at wreckage, talking to
people, talking to the internal audit staff as well, which is critical in any quality assurance review that you
would do. But in our opinion, the team's opinion, RTD internal audit division does not comply with the
Institute of Internal Auditors standards, that I just showed you on the page before. What doesn't it adhere
to? Independence and structure and we'll get into that. Risk assessment, I've seen that in the minutes of
your Board meetings, how do you pick the audits that you do? Do you have enough people? What was
the basis of these audits? Assessment of the enterprise level? We had issues with and we'll get into that.
The audit work itself. An internal department, if you think about what it does It spends about 75% of its
work doing audits. That's why you call it an internal audit department.
So we looked at that work, actual work done, planning the assignments, doing the field work, sampling,
preparing work papers, communicating right an audit report. It is our opinion that it does not comply with
the standards. And then the most important aspect of an audit, is the recommendation itself. If you have
recommendations and you don't follow up, you don't implement them, why do the audit? It would just be
money wasted or effort wasted. Most important, two of the most important standards, in that red book that
I showed you in the previous slide. Number one is internal audit recommendation follow up, meaning,
does anyone care? If this is the audit, you have the recommendations to improve the authority from an
efficiency and effectiveness perspective. Did you follow up? And the answer was not adequately. Second
standard, just so you know I mentioned two, was the quality assurance review, which we'll get into later in
our presentation. Next John?

There's a great slide that Elizabeth gave us on our team. And it talked about what's the maturity of an
internal audit department. Because it varies, from inception, I've been in organizations that created an
internal audit department and it matures over the years. For a department that's been in place in your
organization for the time it's been in, we came to the conclusion that you're still at not a sustainable level.
You are level one and you should be much higher. Those are the various levels that we get into it, but you
can be yourself and will be in the report. But based on the information records, people we spoke to, we
see that currently there's a lot of way you can go for improvements. And we'll get into that and how you
can improve your functions. Next one?
So one of the questions or seven questions and that did come from the Board and from the General
Manager. The first question was, hey the audit functions performed by internal audit division, as
compared to other similar agencies are benchmarking practice. How are we doing as compared to other
agencies of our size. Based on the conclusion that we reached, the audit functions performed by the
internal audit division as compared to similar units, were found to be small in size. Currently, you have
two people working, we spoke to them both. You have the head of the Department and you have one
person assisting on that position. You actually have a budget head count of three, officially on the books
and records, but you only are using two right now. It's our opinion that based on the work that ahead of
you and the size of your organization and your responsibilities you have, that should be increased to at
least five positions. And we'll talk to you about how you get there, but you don't have enough people too,
to meet the demands and to particularly address the risks that you're facing. And particularly during these
times with the pandemic. And coming out of a pandemic and what does that mean to you, as it relates to
revenue expenses and your budget and particularly safety and reliability, which are critical to your vision
and your your mission.
Some organizations that we spoke to and laid out here-- there's a chart that we got from-- after we added
Anthony because he's on the team. The greater Cleveland asked him how many he had. And it varied. I
mean, take the MTA I worked out of it. I mean, we did have 85 auditors. But most transit properties
around from that $500 million to $2 billion, $3 billion mark, and that's the amount of positions they had.
Based on benchmarking consultation with the team, we arrived at listen, why give them eight, nine right
now? Let's give them five, get them going, make them more effective. And then you could based on your
risk assessment determine whether or not you want to go from there. But I'd rather you walk than run into
improving or developing your internal department function.
PEGGY CATLIN: Michael, excuse me, this is Peggy Catlin. I just wanted to note for the record that
Director Rosenthal has also joined the call.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: So he's on with us. And I apologize for-MICHAEL FUCILLI: No, not at all, I mean, please interrupt me. That's what we're here for. We love being
interrupted. That means you're listening. Thank you so much. John, I just hit my page numbers. What
page am I up to? 11. So with that, I'll turn it over to Elizabeth. Elizabeth?
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: All right, thank you, Michael. So in terms of our next couple of slides, we will be
responding to the second question from the Board, which was regarding the efficacy of the division and
fulfilling its goals as stated in its Board-approved chapter-- charter.
So in order to do this, we examine the Finance Administration and Audit Committee Charter. We review
the RTD bylaws. We also took a look at the-- as it relates to the Audit Committee of Responsibility, we

looked at the internal audit function and its charter. And what I'll do is I'll start with the information
considered, and Anthony will follow on with additional information regarding the bylaws.
So in order for us to determine the efficacy, we consider it conforms to standards. So Mike mentioned
earlier on about our standards. We consider standards that speak about the authority, the purpose, and
responsibility of internal audit, the standard 100, one of our attribute standards.
We considered how the internal audit charter is expressed. We considered whether it was consistent with
the definition of internal auditing in terms of how it performed its work. We considered whether or not they
represented the expected code of ethics, as well as the related standards.
So just to give you a high overview of some of these standards as we talk about what we looked at and
what we observed, you may have a frame of reference. We have a standard that speaks about
independence and objectivity, and that is typically achieved through the dual-reporting relationships,
which includes a function reporting to the committee of the Board, Audit Committee specifically, and, of
course, an administrative reporting relationship with management.
We looked at our standards 1110, which speak about organizational independence. And that what really
speaks to is basically, the-- where it speaks about where the internal audit department sits within the
organization and a place where it's able to within a structure that allows it to fulfill its responsibility in its
optimal sense. And we'll discuss that further later.
We also looked at standards 1111, which speaks about the direct interaction with the Board. It guides the
formal expectations around formal interactions as well as informal communications expected of the
Board. We looked at standards 1300 and 1310, which speaks about quality assurance and improvement
program. Mike mentioned earlier on that standards 1300 is one of the most important ones, second to
standard 2500, about monitoring.
Well, this allows the Board to understand how the efficacy, really, of the internal audit function, that's the
standard to evaluate the quality of that function. And, of course, we looked at our standards of
performance in 2020 regarding communication. So if we go to our slide here, basically, as we consider
the Audit Committee Charter, here are some of our observations.
So there are no-- there is no direct evidence, based on what we saw, that the audit-- the Board and its
Finance and Administration and Audit Committee Charter periodically approved the internal audit charter.
That is expected in terms of its oversight responsibility. While we saw that the RTD charter was approved
in December of 2017, we were not able to see evidence of this formal approval of the Board.
Also, the RTD organizational chart, which we received dated 20-- July 2020, it shows this reporting
relationship of the General Manager CEO. And then we were looking for expectations in terms of that
functional oversight based on the charter. We also were looking for an opportunity to see whether or not
the Board had some responsibility over the management of the performance of the CAU or the internal
auditor. We were not able to see any evidence of that, not in the reporting relationship, nor in practice. So
that's one of the things we looked for in our next slide.
In our next slide, we also considered continuing with the line there around expectations of the charter. So
in the audit charter, we did see some of the mandatory expectations, so the mission of internal auditing,
the mandatory elements of the IPPF or International Professional Practices Framework was certainly
referenced in the charter.
But what we did not see, though, is the evidence that this information was discussed by the CAE or the
Internal Audit Manager, which is a matter of routine with the senior management and the Board, again,

demonstrating that expectation of that interaction. There was no direct evidence that we were able to see
of this ongoing communication. We mentioned earlier on about the communication standards, standards
for formal and informal communication.
We did not see evidence of this ongoing communication with the committee of the Board. Even though
we had some documentation, it shows that this is expected as well. According to the rules and
responsibility of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee, it outlines-- in there that there should
be an expected-- expectation to meet with the Internal Audit Manager as needed. It even specifies that
this [INAUDIBLE] matter is relevant of concern, of importance.
It even talks about anything that audit may find concerning and to raise that. Maybe it's health related,
safety related, or welfare of an RTD rider or employee. Again, that was expressed in the documentation.
Again, we didn't see that happening in practice. Next slide, please.
So, again, also expressed under the Roles and Responsibility of the Finance, Administration, and Audit
Committee Charter, the Vice Chair was also expected to have this meeting with the internal audit
Manager on an as needed basis to discuss relevant matters. Again, that was not something we saw in
practice.
According to the Roles and Responsibility of the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee Charter,
again, there is an expectation that the committee as a whole meet to monitor the audit activities or the
activities of the internal audit department, evaluate the audit reports, as well as track the close-- and close
out and monitoring of the findings, so tracking the findings, monitoring for full implementation, all
expressed in the committee charter, not something that we saw operating in practice. Next slide, please.
So, again, in continuation of what we found in the documented charters, the staff and expectations
outlined by the Finance and Administration-- Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee Charter
requires another interaction with the CFO, the audit manager, again, something that we did not see in
practice as well.
According to the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee Charter, the Internal Audit Manager is
expected to schedule an annual meeting to meet with the full Board to talk about the audit plan, to talk
about what's coming in the upcoming year. Another thing that our standards require that we have this kind
of interaction in terms of audit planning as part of audit planning, which we'll talk about as well in detail.
This is not something that we saw in practice either.
And then our next slide, we simply talk about some Audit Committee Charter expectations, just in three
quick points. The Audit Committee Charter should include the following expectations, receive and review
the annual independent financial audit required by law. We recommend that the Board take appropriate
action and make sure that that's available for-- as part of the responsibility.
Review and receive the final reports from the independent auditors or any specified or special financial
audit requested by the Board or other parties. Also, oversee the authority's responsibility as it relates to
financial audits, as well as other third parties. Again, making sure that-- and this could include any third
party that would have some responsibility for audit, so another thing that we would provide in terms of
Audit Committee Charter expectations. And at this point, I'll pass it over to Anthony to speak about the
RTD bylaws and some of the best practices we wanted to offer there. Anthony?
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: Thank you, Elizabeth, Director Rosenthal, Director Catlin, members of the Board,
and General Manager Johnson. I'm happy to be here. I'm Anthony Garofoli. I'll start with on page 17. This
is my review of the RTD bylaws. And what I did was I compared those with best practices.

And within those two bullet points, these don't exist in your bylaws, OK? Your bylaws should include
language to establish and maintain an internal audit department. The first bullet point-- this is where it
clearly states for the Board, the GM, the staff, the employees, third parties, they should all be aware that
there is established an Internal Audit Department.
That second bullet, recommended language-- these are-- this element should be-- this is duties of the
Board, clearly stated for everyone. And for both of these bullet points, the expectation as we see them
repeated in the audit charter. Next page, please.
This begins a series of pages where I've compared the current internal audit charter written in 2017 with
the best practices model, as established by the Institute of Internal Auditors. And I won't go through each
of these sections in detail. But what I want to say that there's the charter that RTD has-- it looks like there
was an attempt to mirror the best practice model, but there are certain sections that are missing. And then
there's some that should just be updated.
So some examples-- and we can kind of scroll through here, if you don't mind-- is that these items include
the Audit Manager's responsibilities, the Board's responsibilities, reporting responsibilities, quality
assurance, and mandatory elements of a quality assurance program. And then next slide.
And then a periodic review of the charter itself, where the General Manager, the Audit Manager, or the
Board can review that charter and make sure it aligns with the mission of the RTD. OK. And at this point,
we'll turn this back over to-- who's this? 22, it's Michael. Michael, you may be on mute.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: There you go. Thank you, Anthony. One of the things you asked was how is
division's compliance with recognized audit standards and practices? Well, let me just tell you something
about the standards. The standards really don't-- it doesn't matter if you have a small department of one
or you'll have an audit department like Citibank of 1,000.
The standards apply to all. And the expectation is-- and for your department of two or budget of three, you
would have to have adherence to the standards. Some more small-order departments-- and we-- I've
been in the profession a long time-- tend to say, well, I'm one person. How many audits could we do?
Why do we have to adhere to standards?
Well, you have to. Because when you face a Board like yourself, it's important with a Board and a oneperson department or two-person department that you have-- how many departments-- how many audits
could I do? That's true, how many, a handful? You need to know which audits I can't do, and that's where
the standards come in. And that's where your decision comes in whether or not you're adequately staffed
or not.
Because to adjust risk, what risk are you not addressing? And that's what these standards and practices
give you. So as I said earlier, this division does not comply with recognized audit standards. And by the
way, those standards are the only standards in the world. There are no other. Institute of Internal Auditors
are the only standards for the profession of internal auditing. There's no other that any audit department
could use.
And you should always ask your head of your department what standards do you use? Because it can't
be Mike's standards. It's not Elizabeth's standards. It's not Anthony's standards. It's Institute of Internal
Audit Standards. And how does that pertain to your independence and structure that they eloquently told
you?
Your risk assessment at the enterprise level. And I read your minutes, which are rather lengthy, I may
say. I had to do word search. But you had questions about that. I saw Board members asking, do you

have enough resources, which audits are you doing, why are you doing these audits? And I didn't see the
follow up to the answers to those questions.
As I said, 75% of our work is planning field work and reporting of assignments. And more importantly, the
documentation to support the audit report. You don't see the work papers. You see the audit report.
What's the foundation? The foundation to the house for an audit is those four papers.
You stand on them. You have to rely on them. They have to be accurate. They have to be complete. They
have to be good. They have to be reviewed and they have to be approved, and that was not the case.
And then as I told you already, what are recommendations? If you're not going to follow up on the
recommendations, don't do the audit. You would have no reason to do that. Next.
So when we saw the plan, the annual plan-- and time budgets are not used. So when we look at
particular audits, there was no way to know. And when you read report, is this a small audit, a medium
audit, a large audit? How robust was it? What was the robustness of the planning, the field work, and the
report writing? We couldn't reach that conclusion.
Audits, data application, that risk that I told you-- one of the practices you would use is have interviews
with management. But it's not the only practice you would use. You don't ask people what you want me to
audit, what keeps you up at night. You have to do other things as well. You have to do your own
assessments. You have to look at information. You have to look at records. You have to look at controls.
You'll have to look at past audits to reach a comprehensive list.
With a staff of two, I can't audit a lot. But what was the basis of me selecting those audits that I picked?
And as I told you, what can't I do? It's probably more important in your world for me to tell you what I can't
audit than what I will audit. And that wasn't there.
Time budget was not monitored. You have two people. You want to be efficient. You want to be effective.
How long did it take to do these audits? Could you go back and find that out for us? And the answer is no,
we cannot. We have no basis to do that.
But one of the basis of internal auditing is that you have a budget. Because a budget is a project unto
itself, just as you're building a building, you're putting in a new system. How long will it take, and what's it
going to cost? And that's very important for an internal auditor to establish and monitor.
Your work papers, I told you, foundation for your report. As goes the report, goes the work papers. And
we'll show you in a few slides the amount of work papers that we've looked at. I've done many quality
assurance reviews, departments of one, departments of 1,000. I've never seen so many papers lost in my
life. You have manual work papers, but you have a lot of work papers lost, which worries me because
that's the foundation of your audit report.
And, by the way, you could have an issue in your audit report going back seven years. You need the work
papers to support the work that you did. It's an important issue. When we used to travel back in the day
when we had automated work papers, you weren't even allowed to check in the work papers. You'd have
to almost handcuff them to your arm, because they were that important. So you don't lose work papers.
Judgemental sampling is a tool, but it's not let's pick 10. Let's pick 30. You can't just pick a sample
judgmentally. Today, and particularly in 2021, automated tools that we have, software that's not very
expensive that you could use to support the sample you did to conclude on your data.
Your errors, your irregularities, your fraud is in the data. It's not in your work process flows. If you're
reviewing a sample of 10 on 60,000 items, you'd probably have a better chance--

PEGGY CATLIN: Somebody on the call or somebody on the-- has been unmuted. Yeah, they need to
mute. There's a secondary conversation going on that's interfering. So would you all please check your-either your phone or your computer to make sure you're on mute? Thank you. I apologize, Michael.
Michael, I didn't mean for you to mute. I meant for others to mute. You're on mute, Michael.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Thank you, Peggy. You're in charge of the muteness that we have. OK, good. So it
says mute on my screen. Am I still muted?
PEGGY CATLIN: We can hear you.
JOHN HENRY: Yeah, we can hear you fine. But now it muted again.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Well, I'm not doing it. My hands are here. So if you have records of 10,000 records,
50,000 records-- which you could have in certain areas. Think of your ridership on an annual basis-- you
have a better chance of picking the lotto numbers than picking a record of-- a sample of 10 and finding
anything substantial in your organization.
Judgmental sample is a good tool, but it's not one that should be used all the time. You just can't pick 10.
You can't pick 30. It has to be based on the population, the sample, the audit that you're doing. So you
have to develop more robust sampling plan in the department. Next.
One of the things you want to know is how did we pick these audits? And you have to have a criteria. You
have to have a basis. In my department, we use five. Elizabeth uses seven. Anthony uses somewhere in
between there. Such things that you would use is reputational risk, materiality, certainly, how much does
it cost you, controls, things like that.
And that was not used. You had no basis for picking these audits. It can't be a running list of items, and it
just can't be merely discussions with management, which, by the way, it's one thing that was done was
discussions with management, which is a good thing. But if it's the only thing, it's not enough.
And the audit universe, you're constantly adding to it. Audit universe is what should I audit within your
organization, within your business functions, procurement, technology, revenue, operations. What should
I audit? It's not a running list. We were told that I have a running list that I add to it. Well, show me what
you've added and deleted over the years, and you couldn't support that.
And then how did you pick those 10 audits, those 12 audits that you did from this running list? What was
the basis? You just can't put them in a drawer and pick out 10. You've got to have a basis. That's what
this assessment is.
And, by the way, internal audit departments are charged with doing an independent risk assessment from
the entity. And that was not done. And there's a standard which I just went over for you. Next slide. Again,
here's a list. And this is a slide that I use for my own audit committee. Wasn't made for you, but it just tells
the story of what you would use to identify your audit universe.
Management request to the interviews is certainly one, and it's important. But you need to look at your
strategic plan. And you have one. There was no tie-in to that. Your Board reports, [INAUDIBLE] financial
data, which is a concern to you. I saw in your minutes, your discussions, and your finance committee how
you really are diligent in your review of that budget and watching it.
What organizational changes do we have? And you've had several over the past few years. And then
what are you external regulators telling? We talked to the state auditor. We talked to the external auditor.
What are they saying in their reports? So that culmination of those areas give-- would give you a robust
audit plan. That needs to be documented every year. Next. Is this-- just want to make sure this is mine.
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: Mike, so I'll take it from here.

MICHAEL FUCILLI: Yes, go ahead.
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: So Mike mentioned earlier on in terms of our planning-- so he's, again, thinking
in terms of the standards. There are very specific requirements around those. So in this slide, we show
here specifically standard 2010.A1 that speaks about the requirement of having that documented risk
assessment.
With the requirement here is basically if you look at a state that the CAE develops an internal audit
strategy and approaches that considers it aligns with the goals of the organizations, the expectations of
leadership, that's where that discussion for senior leaders come in. It is a risk-based brand, which means
that it responds to the risks facing the organization and absolutely considers that.
One of the things that we noticed doing discussions of that-- there are opportunities with RTD internal
audit. They actually talk to management. What we did not see the evidence of that documented
discussion to confirm that the action was taken. So we know that this is happening, but we didn't see
anything to confirm that these discussions with management, in fact, are happening.
According to our standards, the CAE should develop an internal audit plan, which is usually a list of
proposed audit engagement with specifications of whether or not they would be assurance in nature or
consultant in nature, the different types of activities that internal audit, by definition, would offer an
organization, and the rationale for selecting the proposed engagements.
Again, whether we're thinking in terms of the risk rated-- ratings of this potential engagement,
demonstrating why it's important that they be considered, when the last time they were considered, and
also considering whether or not it was a management request or things of that nature. Again, we had no
evidence to support that this was occurring. Our next slide, please.
So communication and approval. Again, standard 2020 is one of our performance standards, which
requires that the CAE is responsible for communicating the plan, the resource requirements. So Michael
mentioned earlier on that you have that plan. You have a defined budget, which expresses the resource
necessary. All of that has to be communicated to the Board demonstrating their oversight of this activity.
Also, when there are limitations or resource in nature or otherwise, that is also expected as part of that
ongoing discussion. The standards require that the internal audit plan-- that CAE typically defines this
activity, the scopes of deliverables, resources, outlines the approach, as well as be ready to provide
periodic information on the progress made towards meeting or accomplishing the plan. Again, activities
that we did not see occurring in practice.
The CAE should communicate, again, all this information to the Board and get their buying, again, and
have evidence demonstrate that this does not happen-- that this is happening, and we're hoping to see
that as part of the opportunities recommendations we've offered to improve the process. And the other
thing is just to ensure that the internal audit universe-- Mike mentioned this earlier on-- these are the
things that are typical within not just for transit but any organization.
You look at anything that's auditable across your organization. What the audit universe would typically
include in any organization-- again, it would vary, but expectation is you would have this General sense of
auditable entities, things that are auditable across the organization, whether you're looking at
departments, functions, business processes, significant laws and regulations.
The other thing would be a significant area of risk. For example, capital project planning, vendor
assurance, oversight. I mean, things that are unique to your organization given the context of things that
are considered as part of the audit universe. And then you determine what area would be focused on it as

part of any given audit plan based on this documented risk assessment that takes place. Our next slide,
please.
The standards require that the CAE communicate the internal audit activities plan. Again, we talked about
this already, the resource management expectations before that. Before communicating to senior
management and the Board regarding the internal audit plan, the internal audit activities, resource
requirements. All of this information are expected in terms of reporting.
That labor hours, skills and technology necessary to accomplish the audit objectives, all things that
should be provided to the techniques to be used, timing and scheduling, availability of resources and
funding. Again, as part of the Board's responsibility for oversight, that function oversight ensuring that the
audit department has the resources necessary to perform its work is also one of the way that the Board
demonstrates its management over management there. OK. And our next slide, please.
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: Thank you, Elizabeth and Michael. So continuing, as Michael introduced these
concepts and provided to you some practical examples, we continue to review the RTD work against the
standards. This is a resource management, 2030, requires the Audit Manager to ensure that audit
resources are appropriate and sufficient, both the mix of skills and competencies to achieve the riskbased plan and the quantity of resources necessary to adhere to to address the organizational risks. Next
slide, please.
OK, this is where the-- because the CAE must report on impact of resource limitations, what we're looking
for is we observed some potential resource limitations. Were these communicated to management? Were
these communicated to the Board? We saw no evidence of this to support this. Next slide, please.
OK, and the proposed internal audit plan for approval by the General Manager and the Board of trustees.
What was the rationale for developing the plan, as Michael said and as Elizabeth said? Was there a risk
scoring? Was it done at the enterprise level? Was it done at the entity level, the department level? What
was the risk assessment?
And then communication to the Board, do adequate resources exist to obtain the proposed plan? What
enterprise-wide risks are covered in the plan, and where are risks, as Michael said-- he's where-- we
should be worried about what he can't do, what risks can't be covered by the audit plan? Next slide,
please.
And later, Michael discussed with you an agenda that the-- for Board presentations for the audit manager.
But these are some suggestions. They're embedded in these standards. These suggestions are to report
to the Board and to senior management, conformance with the IIA's code of ethics, significant risks and
controls, including fraud.
Moving down, frequency of and suggested content reporting, so it would be the reporting out on the
charter, programs to attain the plan, results of activities of the audit work, risks and controls. Moving
forward and in that last bullet there would be additional suggestions about comment-- about content,
quality assurance, adherence to the standards. Again, we're looking for how the audit manager was
communicating with senior management and to the Board. And we did not note any evidence to support
this. And the next list goes to-MICHAEL FUCILLI: Elizabeth.
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: Michael.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Elizabeth.

ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: It would be Elizabeth. So what we've offered here for your consideration are risk
categories that are typical in transit. So we've been talking about how important it is to consider risk at the
top of the organization, especially as part of audit planning. What we offer here are some risk categories
that are typical in transit.
And when you think about this, given the business context, whether we're thinking internal or external for
transit, these are what we would see typical. So whether we're talking financial risk management,
financial management risk, legal and compliance reputational risk, safety risks, of course, that's-- most of
us will say safety is our first priority. So that's always a category typical for transit.
Service delivery or operational risk, strategic risk, things that we need to consider, as a matter of fact,
when we're talking about planning earlier on. And we should be demonstrating with our audit plan that we
are aligned with the organizational strategy, hence why we have to have these discussions with senior
management. Again, another category that could be considered as part of the risk discussion and risk
planning process.
Technology risk, another risk category that could be typical with transit. During the introductions, John
mentioned that I currently chair the after committee of audit professionals. Or recently, we all got together,
all aimed at helping create value for our organizations. We started to think about, well, what risk should
we be thinking about given the current environment, especially thinking about COVID and as we move
into what we'll call our new norm?
What should we be thinking through as a transit group of internal auditors? Here are some of the results
of that poll for those of us that got together back then to think through this and offer this as well as for
your considerations. So cybersecurity, of course, workforce availability and management, especially as
we think about our reentry plans, a lot of expectations from our riders looking to see that cleaning is
taking place in the transit and the systems. Again, things that we wanted to think through as an audit
community within transit.
These are the kinds of risks that would change our plans, especially as we're thinking about managing to
risk, those types of considerations come through-- come to when we're thinking about what we need to do
for our clients. So generally speaking, like any other organization, risk for RTD based on its internal and
external context, its mission, vision, core values, and, of course, its selected strategies. Just a visual to
provide some of the recent discussions within the transit within after, really, as part of that committee of
audit professionals. Michael?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Thank you. Thank you, Elizabeth. So here's an example of what such a presentation
would be made to the Board or the audit committee on the audit universe. Once you identify the audit
universe auditable areas, then how would you break down those items?
If it's in my organization, I had over 650 auditable areas. And what would be the breakdown from a low,
moderate, and high risk? And then how did I then use that assessment to pick the 25, 30, 100, whatever
number of audits I picked that I could do was in my resources that I showed to the Board? What was the
basis of that? And that risk assessment that you see would drive that. Next slide.
And then as I said, these are the criteria that we'd use. This is actually the criteria that I use at MTA
organization. It's $20 billion. Financial exposure, nature of the operations, the complexity, control
activities, previous audit results, because we know entities like ourselves are audited by lots of people at
the federal, state, city level. And management input was another one that we used as well. With that, I
take you back to Anthony.

ANTHONY GAROFOLI: Thank you. OK, next slide. All right, earlier in the presentation, Elizabeth spoke
on the standards. And this is a question that was asked by the committee. The reporting structure of the
division is compared with audit units of other agencies. Where Elizabeth was saying the-- we noticed that
you had a dotted line to the General Manager CEO-- I mean, to the Board. And then a solid line was to
the General Manager CEO. So I'm sorry, again, dotted line to the Board. And you have a solid line to the
General Manager CEO.
Let's talk about some distinctions. First of all, we have some-- those distinctions are mandatory elements
within the Internal Audit Charter and the bylaws, as we've recommended. It's one thing to have those
Internal Audit Charter, but it's another thing to implement them. OK, so I want to stress, implement and
the Audit Charter.
Providing that the solid line to the Board, you created an environment. We have an unbiased environment
in order for the auditor to perform those duties. And then when you have that dotted line to the CEO, then
you create an environment for the staff and for management, senior management, the employees that
gives them clout, and that the General Manager CEO is going to support those activities within the
organization. Next slide, please.
I think I covered these slides, but go forward. These are what these slides are saying. So you can
advance then to the next slide. And this is the actual standard that speaks to what I just said from the
professional practice framework. Go ahead, next slide. And this is going to go back to Michael.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Thank you, Anthony. So one of the things we also asked, five, seven, the adequacy
of the division report documents, including the format findings, conclusion, and recommendations. I told
you the internal divisions report documents, including the format findings, conclusions, and
recommendations were not adequate to ensure they're in compliance with the standards.
One of the things I actually did-- I did receive five sets of audit work papers. We had eight audit reports,
although I would have rather gone to Denver to look at them. You FedEx them to me, thank you. We
actually looked at five sets real work papers. These are the sets of work papers that we looked at. And I'll
take you forward. And those are the reports that we reviewed. And I'll take you through what we found.
So no evidence of audit plan or approach for your particular audit. So when an audit was selected,
regardless that there was no basis for selecting that audit when you did do the audit-- and one thing I may
say, the robustness of the topics were pretty good, in my opinion, and in the team's opinion. You picked
audits.
John, just go back a minute. If you look at the substance of the audits you're picking, they did pick
probably secondary equipment, bus and rail operations training, quite important as it relates to safety.
Controls over financial reporting, salary training, security contracts, small assets, accounts payable,
purchasing cards, which could, from a reputational risk perspective, travel expenses, insider threats,
which really piqued my interest, physical security.
So they were quite robust topics. They were not picking easy topics, which, though, is a challenge.
Because if you're going to pick difficult audits, you need to do difficult audits and ensure you're doing
them properly. Next slide, back to the slide, John.
So no evidence of the audit plan on the particular audit, on those audits cited on the page. No time
budgets that we talked about. How long did it take to do it? Audit program not fully developed. Get your
road map. Get your GPS. Where are you going with the assignment? You need an audit program, even if

you have two people in the department. Even if one member of standards doesn't give you an exception
because you don't have resources.
Purpose, source, conclusion. One thing you always talk about, Elizabeth, with every work paper has to
stand on its own. You don't have pictures of the work papers. You have manual work papers. Nothing
wrong with that, small audit department. But you should not have voluminous work papers. You don't get
paid by the pound, nor do you get paid by the finding. You get paid for quality.
And you can't have work papers with contracts so big that are included in the work papers and there's no
reason for them. So work papers that were perhaps 12 inches long, you could have probably had them
three inches to be more efficient and effective. Remember, we're measuring the client, the people we're
auditing, for efficiency and effectiveness.
Audit departments have to follow such standards as well. We have to be efficient and effective if we're
going to evaluate other people's efficiency and effectiveness. One of the key, key standards-- no
evidence of supervisory review-- you have two people. You could have had that. Work papers have to be
reviewed.
Very shallow audit testing, I talked to you about that. How do you pick 10? What was the basis? Or no
evidence of testing. Audits are not-- you think you have a problem in your area? Yes, all right, let me write
a finding. I'm going to have that discussion, but that's not a basis for developing audit finding. You have to
do testing. Audit objectives were not clearly stated, incomplete work paper references, very hard to follow.
One of the audits, insider threat that was on the page before, really, I took interest to it. Living in the New
York City area, insider threats is an issue around the country. I was told that yeah, we started the audit.
We did the audit. We wrote a report. But RTD doesn't have-- does not have an RTD insider threat
program. That was what the audit report said.
I don't audit something that you don't have. If you don't have it, it wouldn't be in my audit universe. I
should go to the board and tell you we need to have an insider threat program, but I don't commence an
audit through it. I don't even know what you would do because you didn't-- there were no work papers
because you don't have any processes.
You don't have a program. I didn't write a report to tell you you don't have a program. I could have
eliminated all of that. That stood out to me. And then as I said, voluminous contracts policies in the work
papers with no reason why and no rationale. Next, work.
And this is very important to the conclusions you read. First of all, I've read the reports. What are you
trying to tell me? I read your conclusions, but you had facts in your conclusion. A conclusion is not a fact.
A conclusion is an opinion. And what is the opinion? If you remember, I started off this presentation today
with the opinion of what we found, right? That's how you do an internal auditing.
Financial information, no materiality, you had no basis for even understanding the findings because how
much does this cost you? Materiality is important to an organization? Audit conclusions were in the
background section. I talked about work papers were lost. You don't put audit conclusions in background.
Background is how you do a process, not what I think about your process.
And it was their tick marks which we use in our profession that explain what documents, what evidence
do we trace to, were either not there, hard to follow, or placed randomly on the work papers. Audit work
was primarily interviews. As I said, interview is a practice we would use, but it can't be the only one.
Work papers, as I said, work paper intensive limited access, issue was not developed. One of the findings
talked about where someone that they were auditing said, you can't audit this. You have no access, which

a charter allows you to have. Well, you just don't drop that. That's where you have to run, when Anthony
and Elizabeth talk about communication to the Board. You need to talk and need to address that.
Of course, I would go to Debra first. It probably would be resolved at that level. But if it wasn't, that's
where that dotted line comes in and the importance of it. You go to Audit Committee to get you the
access that I need. I stand on the charter. I'm only as good as my charter. And limited access in our world
is not a good thing.
As I said, very good audit objectives, but your work did not provide the opinions that were reached or the
basis of it. In fact, objectives change from your audit plan that I talked about to the objective in the report.
The objective has to be the same. What I started to do and what I completed has to match.
You don't change objectives at the end of the audit. In fact, you never change the objective. And the last
item-- I'll just move the screen-- no correlation with the audit program steps. If you had one, and you didn't
over the time, as I said, why did you-- how did you-- what did you do to reach that conclusion or to prove
that the audit work was sufficient? Sufficiency is a very important standard in our world.
Next, I just want to check what page I'm on. I talked about the plan and the budgets. You have to-- just as
if you get work done in your own house or on your car, you would ask the mechanic or the person fixing
your house, how long is it going to take? I think you should have that same question on an audit. How
long is this going to take? What's the substantiveness of that audit? What can we do within reason? And
there was no evidence to support that.
Your internal audit reports, those eight documents that the entire team reviewed because we see them
digitally. No overall conclusions. Sometimes in your audit reports-- it's one of the standards. One of the
standards requires audit reports to have five elements. One of the elements is audit conclusion. It's not
there.
A lot of times, you didn't have within a particular audit issue a finding, we call it. A nicer word is issue.
Criteria, your standard that you use. You know our standard. It was the Institute of Internal Auditors of
standards. You had a standard, but your conclusion-- impact, who cares? Why are you telling me this? A
lot of those reports I couldn't really decipher, and I don't know how you do.
What are you trying to tell me? You're telling me something's wrong, but I have no basis to measure
impact. And one of the things an auditor has to do is provide that measurement for you, which is the who
cares question. Why do I care about this? Why are you writing this?
Management response, as I said, I've never seen an organization in my 40 years of auditing where
management disagreed with findings by the time it was in an audit report. It just doesn't happen. You vet
findings as you go along the audit process with the person you're auditing.
If there's an issue, you escalate it. And yes, you escalate it to the Audit Committee during the audit. You
don't write at the end, I can't get agreement, and then just leave it at that. So a lot of your reports had
partially disagrees, disagrees with no audit comment or no evidence of resolution, which is not a good
thing, and financial information I provided.
One other thing to let you know, we follow the standards. This was an audit. This was an audit of your
audit department. That's what a quality assurance review is. So since we follow the standards, Elizabeth,
Anthony, and myself went over all these issues with your head auditor, and she agreed to them all. You
should know that. Because the severity of these issues, I think you'd want to know, what was the
response? And the response was, you're correct, and we agree, and we've got to do a better job. 46,
John, who is that?

JOHN HENRY: Still you, Mike.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Still me? Oh, OK. Oh, we got more.
JOHN HENRY: Yep.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: So I talked to this already, how your draft and final report objectives change. If I hit
resistance on an audit, you should have a climate. You know, you talk about COSO and you talk about
the control environment and what's the attitude of internal audit within the organization?
If I have resistance, which I think you do to some degree, well, I don't change the audit objective to lessen
the resistance. I told you, you don't change the audit objective. You start off with it. It's in concrete. And
you stick with it for your audit report. But you don't change it because I hit resistance in my audit process.
You just don't drop all findings. I had a draft report with many findings, and then I saw the final report.
There was no findings. Well, what happened to them? Did someone hit delete by accident, or were they
dropped intentionally? I don't know. But you have to. You have to. If you are eliminating issues, tell why
you do.
No dates on audit reports, I wanted that. Why is that important? Seems silly. Well, I wanted to know. I
knew when your planning memo was. I'd like to know how long this audit took. Was it two months, six
months, a day? I don't know, and I still don't know. Audit recommendations were not actionable.
We recommend that. That's how you write an audit recommendation. We recommend that you do
something. We recommend that you prepare a reconciliation. We recommend that you issue a policy. We
recommend that you ensure timesheets are improved. But your recommendations were not actionable,
which make them very difficult to follow up on. But nonetheless, they weren't followed up on.
And your scope and objectives, as I said, did not match the conclusion. What you started out to do, I want
to ensure what timesheet's approved. Based on the results of audit work performed, timesheets were or
were not approved. Your conclusions didn't state that. They didn't address your objective, which was no
evidence why that occurred. Let's go to-- and this is my last slide.
So the results of the audit engagements, including the information, has to have the quality of that
information protocol, in case of evidence, omissions, how did I do the audit? It wasn't there, so your
standard 24 you weren't in compliance with because you didn't properly communicate the results of the
audits that you did. And so that's definitely an area you need improvement.
Next, 48. You know, this was a good question, sensitive question, but nonetheless, a question that
needed to be asked. What's the current knowledge, skills, and abilities of the audit division employees?
And hey, can you give us assessment of any technical knowledge needed to perform internal audits, IT
audits, in particular?
Well, the three of us, we did speak to the head of your audit department, and we talked to the person that
is doing the audits as well. In our opinion, in my opinion, was the knowledge there? Yes. Your head
auditor has a good certification. It's not the certified internal auditor, but nonetheless, it's certified
information system auditor, and you just don't back into that test. That's a rigorous exam. So it tells me
the person had some knowledge.
And could I talk to the-- your CAE about internal auditing? Absolutely. Could I talk to her about the
standards? Absolutely. In fact, she knew the standards. But she also knew she wasn't complying with the
standards, which we have an issue with application of those standards, not knowledge of the standards.
But application is really important. I could talk to you about bowling, but I got to throw the ball. And I got to
get some strikes down the road, right? So I think what improvement is needed here, which states about

results of your question three and five, that while the CAE is aware of your standards and aware of the
Institute of Internal Auditing Standards, the application and adherence of that standards is in need of
improvement. Next, John.
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: All right, so thank you, Mike. I will take it here with our Quality Assurance
Improvement Program. So standard 1300, which we've talked about at least a couple of times already, is
one that is truly important. When you think about who audits the auditors, well, this standard gives you
that information.
So one of the 10 core principles of the professional practice of internal auditing is that expectation to drive
quality and continuous improvement. This standard allows us to do that. So by the standards, the CAE is
required and is responsible for implementing a quality assurance and improvement program. Standard
1300 expresses exactly how we do that.
It speaks about the requirements of the quality and assurance program. It speaks about the requirements
for an internal assessment or expectations of this ongoing practice for quality to ensure quality throughout
the audit. And then it also speaks about the expectation for an external assessment, which, by standard,
one is required every five years.
So that is the QAIP program in a nutshell. Of course, there are expectations to report the results of these
assessments, whether it's internal or external to the Board is deemed appropriate. There's also
expectations to disclose to the Board when we find ourselves out of compliance or out of conformance,
rather, with expectation of the standards and other things there.
So we wanted to share that. The charter would typically carry this information as well, requiring that this
QAIP program be implemented. I believe Anthony mentioned some of that earlier on. And also, the CAE
has a responsibility to continue to evaluate the internal audit function for effectiveness and showing as
well for your own self that we're meeting expectations of our clients or value as defined by our clients or
the internal business partners.
Typically, the CAE would develop metrics that would help evaluate efficiency and effectiveness, some of
what Mike mentioned earlier on about budgets for projects. Well, you are evaluating whether or not you
are executing the audit in accordance to the Defined budget to demonstrate efficiency. That's one way to
do that, reporting that out, really, to the Board so that the Board can also make that determination.
The CAE may also employ tools like a survey to ensure feedback is coming from the clients to make sure
that we're meeting these expectations as part of performing the audit. There are other opportunities to
buy your equality along the way. Some of the things that we did not see or evidence to support what's
happening with the QAIP program in itself or some of the elements defined within. Next slide, please.
OK, so here, we wanted to mention to the committee about suggestions for the committee agenda. And
Audit Committee agenda is typical-- would typically include things that are outlined. In order to fulfill its
oversight responsibilities, the Audit Committee would have these discussions, reviews of results of the
work or outputs of the work, ensure that there are open sessions to address matters.
Sometimes, there are closed sessions where sensitive matters, maybe things that are deemed sensitive
from a safety perspective, cybersecurity matters, things that are clearly confidential could be discussed
within those. Typically, you would see an Audit Committee agenda that would allow a repeatable process
and a trackable process as well.
So some of the reoccurring agenda items we offer for your consideration here are approval of minutes
natural course, approval of the committee work plan, which helps the committee stay on task in terms of

what it tries to do over the year. A lot of the expectation of oversight can be baked into that work plan so
that those meetings happen as part of that normal course.
Follow up items typical for most committee expectations-- Mike mentioned earlier on that there were
some questions that might have required some sort of response back that may have been picked up with
an opportunity to have a follow-up action item for the committee as part of the normal process. And also,
status of audit activities, something that would also require that communication or at least make that
happen as part of the normal course, the expected informal and formal communication. Next slide,
please.
Again, we just offer additional information here relative to the Audit Committee agenda as well. We also
talked about some things that are typical, so specific items covering financial, legal, operational,
technology, or corporate compliance matters. Other things that the Audit Committee agenda could
include-- we know that obviously, there are reviews of the financial statements audits.
Whether this is happening quarterly, annually, that is an item that could go on the Audit Committee
agenda, typical agenda. Accountants management letter report, we received that, some of those items
that don't rise to the level of a deficiency sometimes are presented in a management letter to the
committee. Next slide, please.
Other items here, again, we don't have to list all of them. We've gone over some of these with you, items
that are typical to the committee agenda. What's helpful there is that having this routine agenda that helps
identify things that are either more standard for the meetings or ad hoc is necessary. It just helps to
generate-- to drive the conversation necessary for internal audit oversight.
And just some things here I'll mention on my last side here before I pass it on, Audit Committee attributes.
We realize that this oversight responsibility is one that is-- it's a heavy responsibility. Just offering here in
addition to the financial expertise and the strategic vision in terms of the qualities and skills and
responsibilities necessary, experience necessary for the Audit Committee, we believe that the Audit
Committees exhibit these leadership skills that are helpful to demonstrate that oversight responsibility.
They should be independent and approachable. They should lead their team skillfully, and they should
also be courageous. And we said also before that these are also skills and expectations, really, attributes
of the CAE that would also help drive an effective internal audit function. Michael?
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: OK, that's me, Elizabeth, Anthony. That's OK. This is the last question from the
Audit Committee General Manager, the division's practice regarding the follow up of audit
recommendations. And as Michael said earlier, if you're not going to follow up on the audit
recommendations, why do the audit? You're not going to be able to implement any of the
recommendations.
So the conclusion, the division's practice regarding follow up of audit predictions is not adequate. There
are no implementation dates to track completion or monitor progress. There are inadequate explanations
that close out unimplemented recommendations or evidence to support the closure of implemented
recommendations. There is no evidence to demonstrate that recommendation implementation status was
presented to the Audit Committee. Next page, please.
So this is a standard 2500. It speaks to you have to have some type of system in place to monitor the
disposition of results communicated to management. These can be paper and pen. This can be an Excel
spreadsheet. There are automated systems available on the market.

We've provided the Audit Manager some suggestions to research and find what's best for this
organization. Unfortunately, we noted no evidence to support that this standard was in practice. And I will
now turn this over to John to close us out.
JOHN HENRY: Thank you, team. I really appreciate it. Thank you, everyone. Hopefully, just during this
process, you all got the opportunity to really see the amount of effort and work went into providing this
type of auditing peer review from Michael, Elizabeth, and Anthony.
And then what we did here and just on the next couple pages was really just put the concluding
recommendations all in one place, that 17 of them on the next three pages. We won't have to go through
each one in detail, but just wanted to point out that so as part of the ending part of the presentation was
really to put all those recommendations in one place, so, again, that they will be easy to find.
And then as you all go back and digest this a little bit more, this will more or less act as a reference
document to help guide the discussion for the future. And if you want, we can actually do a quiz and kind
of ask some questions, hope everybody took some notes, and do that part of it.
But we would definitely want to thank you, thank you, thank you for an opportunity. As APTA, we are
always here to help our members and assist in these efforts. Then as always, we have a disclaimer. But if
there's any questions that we can assist with, if there's none, Ms. Johnson or Director Catlin that come to
mind right now, we're more than happy to. As always, just send me an email. And then we can address
whatever you all may have or may be thinking of.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Henry, and thank you to the team. I'd like to start out-- and I'll probably
also ask General Manager CEO Johnson to comment. But I'd like to start out by saying I'm sure there are
many, many questions. And this is a situation that we are not going to resolve completely tonight. We
have a lot of work to do, in my opinion.
Fortunately, as Mr. Henry pointed out, the way this team presented their work was almost as a resource
guide and a way that we can move forward. And I very, very much appreciated that aspect of this that we
definitely know that we have a lot of work to do, and we need to get started. It's vitally important for this
organization and for the risks that we face.
I personally cannot thank this team enough for the very hard work that they put in to develop this
information and this report. And as hard as it is for many of us to receive it, I think it needed to be done,
and it's a good starting point. If I might, the Chair sent me a text and asked if she could be the first to
speak. And then I will acknowledge others who have their hands up.
I'm not sure that we could impose upon this team to answer all of our detailed questions at this point. I
would like to encourage folks to really consider this report, develop some questions, and maybe we can
assemble questions to ask of this team who has said that they will be here to help us as we move
forward. I don't-- as I said, I don't think we can answer them all tonight. But Chair Rivera-Malpiede, if you
would like, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. And first of all, let me just thank Elizabeth, Michael,
Anthony, John Henry, and Denae for your incredible work on this piece. It is extraordinary. I just want to
say to the Board that all that kept going through my mind on this was we don't know what we don't know,
which is a saying that our new General Manager says quite often.
This started, as you remember, with the state audit that we had before the legislature. And as I was sitting
there with the state legislature who had a lot of serious questions and concerns about our audit

component, our General Manager had already reached out to APTA to do a peer review, which is just so
timely. And I want to thank her for her forethought in this leadership role.
But I also think that what we have received this evening is a resource guide that will be up to us to review,
to implement, and to make sure that as we move forward, we have a great time. And as I was saying
before with the new General Manager and a new strategic plan of action coming in line, this is a clean
chapter for RTD to move forward, to develop strategies and implement components that are going to
serve our agency and our community for decades to come.
So I want to thank them, and I want to thank all of you, and understand that this is not the only time we
will be discussing this. And, in fact, I probably am thinking that we will end up doing some kind of an ad
hoc committee around this to make sure we do review and implement in collaboration with the Chair and
the Vice Chair of the Finance and Audit Community. So thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I know his hand isn't raised, but I would like to have
Director Davidson comment a little bit later. But first, I noticed that Director Buzek has his hand up.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair, and I'll be brief. I concur with all the kudos to the APTA team.
Thanks so much for all the hard work. You know, when I first looked at this report, I thought, oh my god.
[LAUGHTER] Oh, yikes. But, you know, this is good. This is a good opportunity to really know what we
need to do.
And I also want to thank Chair Rivera-Malpiede, Director Catlin, Director Davidson, and GM CEO
Johnson, because I know you guys were really behind getting this thing done and getting it moving, and I
appreciate that. It's going to be a tough slog moving forward, but I know we can do it. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Director Buzek. I believe Director Dishell had his hand up earlier and then took
it down and put it back up. Am I correct?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Thank you so much. Thank you to everyone who put this together. This was
really illuminating. My question is for-- I would, for lack of a better term, really call this a turnaround
situation in terms of our internal audit and the changes that we need to make.
When you've encountered this sort of in your various professional experiences, how often do we-- should
we be going through a process like this, or what are sort of those? And I know some of this is in the
report, but really, what are those critical steps to not just make sure we implement what's in that report,
but to make sure that we progress from one to two up that ladder sustainably?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Elizabeth, this is a great question for you.
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: Yeah, I was just thinking about that. So in terms of the standards themselves
help drive this, right? We talked about those core principles of internal audit because when you think
about it, we express opinions and offer opportunity for others to improve. We always look internally first
with internal audit. How do we demonstrate improvement?
If we can bake into our process this internal review process, I mean, there's a path forward here with
things to complete. As part of the internal assessment, we can track completion of some of these
recommendations I would suggest. But the expectation as stated in the standard is to do at least an
internal assessment.
That could be done annually within an organization for this evaluation of ongoing improvements. Some of
the things that Mike mentioned in his presentation that we found that could be done differently, that
internal assessment can help identify that early, correct it early, so that in preparation for an external

review, which is by standard, required every five years, that could also be towards a good result for that
as well.
So if you think about maybe taking a look at all of these items, putting them on a path to closure, and
evaluating that as part of that internal assessment that could be done progressively or once a year as part
of the standard or the process, and then externally every five years.
So APTA actually has-- offers this peer review. The really good value of this through the committee of
audit professionals is that we are all not only audit professionals, we're audit professional within transit.
And the standards require that one be done every five years anyway. And so doing that with APTA
obviously would be one good thing to think about this every five year routine.
But then internally, those standards also require that we do a review of ourselves internally. It could be
done as normal process. It can be done as a standalone. It could be done as part of any engagement,
just to drive quality. So hopefully, that answers your question.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: And if I may, Director Dishell, if this had-- if this report was presented at Elizabeth
Ramata at Anthony in Cleveland or in New York at the MTA, the audit committee would place this on their
agenda monthly, and you'd want to get an update. You're not going to wait a year. You're not going to
wait five years.
The severity of this as you have, you want to know what progress is being made. And you need to set the
tone. By placing this corrective action of those 17 recommendations, I would place it on your work plan
monthly, follow up on it, and make it the first item of your Audit Committee, not the last.
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: Yeah, and that's a good point, Mike. And I was also thinking about that. So that
monitoring standard, it requires, I think we mentioned, you don't have a central tracker for all open issues,
which is helpful to be informed in terms of concerns across the organization. This could be the first set of
items to track items going forward. Items for internal audit.
And then as audits progressed, items that are identified in all the different departments could also be
added to that tracker, and you can slowly develop that database. And as well as track those items as they
become fully implemented and closed and validated.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: And may I add, we spoke to your Chair and we spoke to your newly appointed Vice
Chair. And, in my opinion, and not because they're here, there's no two better person to track this. They
have an appreciation of internal auditing, an understanding of it. And they understand the importance,
which we fed-- all three of us fed off of. Because as you know, we do love internal audit. So absolutely,
you're well placed and suited to have that on your agenda.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Dishell, did that answer your question?
BOBBY DISHELL: It did, and if I may, just one follow-up.
PEGGY CATLIN: I also wanted to mention just for the rest of the Board and for you that CEO GM
Johnson had a number of the internal audit standards volumes delivered to RTD headquarters, and we
will have copies in the Board Office. So any Director will have access to those. And I think that that's a
great resource that we really need to pay attention to. Go ahead, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: What are some ways you might have seen well-intentioned Board members perhaps
get in the way of implementing these recommendations?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: You broke up-BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE] myself and maybe others might benefit from it as well.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: It was a little echo-y on my side. Could you say that again? Yeah.

BOBBY DISHELL: What are ways in which, perhaps, you've seen well-intentioned Board members
maybe unintentionally get in the way of getting this moving?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Elizabeth?
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: I think it's-- the good thing I would say here is, again, because of the kind of
engagement we've had with the Board members, I certainly don't see-- if anything, I think we even had
additional requests for discussions, just to make sure the information is well-decisioned, and we provide
the details there at the request.
So it seems like there-- people are geared towards moving this forward. So I don't know that we would
find an issue where people would get in the way of making those improvements here. Generally
speaking, because the Board has, in my experience-- I'll speak from that perspective-- the Board has this
oversight responsibility.
Typically, there's a lot of support in driving improvement in what I've seen, specifically, the Audit
Committee. And one of the things we talked about or offered in our recommendation-- the list of 17 that
John had earlier on-- was to consider maybe having an Audit Committee that has this responsibility.
Typically, you would see them taking the lead in getting this done.
So in my experience, I've not had boards get in the way of driving improvements such as this. And, again,
given the engagement we've had with the board members are saying I wouldn't expect that here either.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: And to add to that, RTD's rather unique that your whole Board is the Audit
Committee. We're recommending that you-- as Elizabeth just said, establish a subset. The only thing that
perhaps could get in the way is the volume of people you have on your Audit Committee.
And when I read your minutes, which were 83 pages, 120 pages long, quite lengthy, I searched for the
word internal audit, and one line came up. Your Audit Committee could be mushroomed by your Finance
and your Administrative Committee. So you may be best served to create a subset of that Board, as
Elizabeth said, to serve as your Audit Committee. And that could drive these changes through.
BOBBY DISHELL: It sounds like, which would be unusual for this board, also limiting participation on that
Audit Committee truly just to those Audit Committee members and not to the entire Board, which is what
we currently do for smaller committees.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Well, even at the MTA, which has a large board of 25 people and an Audit
Committee of five, any board member could attend and Audit Committee meeting and is a member of the
Board. But your functional day to day or administrative monitoring of your internal audit department
should be given to those-- whatever number you come up with, three, five, seven, whatever number you
think is necessary. But it wouldn't be the whole Board. That could get in your way.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Michael. Director Dishell, in my opinion, that is one of the things that we
need to work on as we move forward. So forgive me, I'm not exactly sure the-- Director Buzek, your hand
is still up, but you've already spoken. Do you need to take that down? Thank you. I believe Director
Tisdale was next. I also see Director Cook, Director Lewis, Director Guissinger, and Director Broom. So I
think that's the order that I saw them pop up, but I'm not sure. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, I do want to say what a great resource
we have in APTA in getting this kind of review done by experts in the field, by renowned and extremely
talented experts in the field by virtue of asking APTA to conduct a peer review.
So thank you to everyone at APTA for putting this great team together and for the phenomenal report.
And there are many points to address, but yes, we'll hold off on a lot of them. And obviously, the size of

committees is something that we are separately discussing already with a view toward changing some of
that process, should the Board approve that.
And many other issues that you have addressed are being looked at. And obviously, it's important that the
State Auditor knows that we've now taken this action to address the concerns that were raised in that
state audit. I actually had a question that is a little off of the presentation you gave, but it goes back to the
written report that you submitted in addition to this PowerPoint presentation.
And in our packet, it's packet page 12. It is page two of the report that you submitted. And in the middle of
that page, there are four bulleted items or enumerated items that says that there are also various
enhancement opportunities based on our observations in comparison with RTD with other highperforming organizations, which included the following.
And I just wanted to ask you about one of them. And I don't know if you have the report before you, but
it's page 2 of your report and it's packet page 12. And it says number one, "reviewing the Board
governance activities regarding Board recommendations and approvals."
Now, that was not mentioned during the PowerPoint presentation, the discussion that you had. And I was
just wondering if there was anything that you could add to amplify on that and give us some idea of what
it was that you observed regarding reviewing Board governance activities, regarding Board
recommendations and approvals.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Anthony, you have that one? I think you covered that.
JOHN HENRY: Michael, either you or Anthony.
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: That speaks to the Board bylaws with the-- to create or establish and maintain
the idea of that in the Board bylaws. It gives some strength to the idea of an Internal Audit Department. It
gives some support for how the Board will interact and support that Internal Audit Department.
And then to shift from the bylaws to what I'll call the codified policies of RTD, within the codified policies is
where the internal audit charter should reside after it's reviewed and approved by the General Manager
and Board of Trustees. So in my view, that's where that governance peace and policy piece begins.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, well, I appreciate that clarification on that. That helps me, and I must say, I
agree completely with the observations that you've made. So, again, I thank you, and that's all that I have.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you very much. I had two questions quickly about time-sensitive matters,
so if I may go ahead and bring those up. On the small committees idea, if I understand you, just to verify,
it's not just a matter of having the entire Board as the Finance Committee working on internal audit.
In other words, we've been thinking about going to smaller committees. And just doing that wouldn't be
sufficient, it sounds like, in your view to assure full attention to the internal audit function. Is that correct? I
just want to verify that. Because we had been looking at these smaller committees, one of which would
probably be finance and audit.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Elizabeth, you want that?
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: Well, again, usually, organizations will think about how best to exercise their
oversight responsibilities at the Board level. So it may be different. What we've seen work well, especially
with the internal audit function, is to have that Audit Committee that has responsibility for internal audit
oversight.

As Mike mentioned before, when you have multiple agendas and with the responsibility of the same
committee, this may get varied, as we're seeing, really, because we have not seen that demonstration of
that oversight for internal audit. And its whole interaction or expected reporting and information discussed
given the output of the audit or the internal audit function. So, again, it all depends on how best
governance works in the organization, but we've seen internal audit as a function work well when you
have a dedicated committee from the board.
SHELLEY COOK: Been especially true in the past year with all we've been dealing with with the
pandemic, you know? Finances were looming so large. The second question, if I could-- it's really hugely
helpful to have the specific recommendations regarding the charter and bylaw changes suggested.
So I wanted to ask you about one thing. On your slide 18, it's packet page 36. It says RTD internal audit
department charter review. And you've-- under the authority section, you outlined three things that ought
to be within the authority of that Internal Audit Committee.
One is approve the budget and resource plan. One is make decisions about hiring salary promotion, et
cetera. And the third is a performance appraisal. On the page just prior in talking about the bylaws review- and this kind of gets to Anthony Garofoli's suggestion-- it only includes two of those bullet notes. And it
doesn't include the specific provision in the bylaws for reviewing the budget. And it's actually come up
before.
And the way we-- our budgets come to us in kind of bulk form. They're not broken down so that you can
see the amount that goes to the internal audit function. So I just wonder, do you have any thought, or
would you see any problem with including that third element about the budget review within the bylaws as
well, just to be-MICHAEL FUCILLI: Oh, absolutely, absolutely. That's something you certainly would do. Your budget
right now $300,000. We did obtain it and talk to the CFO. But that's something that should be included in
the bylaws that's under the purview of the Audit Committee. And, by the way, you would then
[INAUDIBLE] get the report-- the sub Audit Committee then would report up to the full Board anyway. But
that's something that certainly would be included.
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: Director Cook, as the CAE, I have a responsibility to budget for the resources
that I need, people, tools, software, supplies, whatever that might be, the ability to outsource if I have to. I
have a responsibility to present those needs to the Audit Committee, whether it's done as part of a larger
budget or whether it's part of as an uploading through management.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Does that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: It does, thanks so much. And thanks again, this is really helpful and important.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I think with regard to the budget, I think that that is something that we have
needed. So Director Lewis, please, and you know what? I apologize if I didn't see your hand raised
earlier, but because your bookshelf is basically-MICHAEL FUCILLI: Oh yeah, it's hidden.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sometimes it's hard to see it, but-- so I don't know if I got the right order. But anyway,
please, the floor is yours.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's totally fine. Thank you so much, Madam Chair, appreciate it. Director Cook,
one of the recommendations for your first question is we recommend that an internal audit strategy and
approach we developed that aligns with the goals and expectations of the organization's leadership.

And so I think in understanding-- with that recommendation, specifically with the conversations that we've
been having about the smaller committees is the reminder for all of us to make sure that we are aligning
those committees with the goals and expectations of the organizational leadership. So that's one.
I had a question of clarity on packet page 11. Within the conclusions, it says number three in the second
sentence, ensure the day-to-day supervision of the internal audit function falls under the RTD General
Manager and CEO as the function reports administratively to the General Manager and CEO. And I was
under the assumption that that was happening. Am I incorrect in that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Michael, would you like to address that?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: I think Anthony handled it. Anthony, what was your opinion on that?
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: I can address that. What is happening is that you have a solid line to the General
Manager CEO, and you have a dotted line to the Audit Committee. That should be reversed.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Right.
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: OK, so the dotted line to the General Manager, that provides the auditor the
support that the auditor needs to work within the staff and management environment. Perhaps a policy
that says you're going to follow up with the auditor on outstanding issues or you're going to have an
entrance conference, an exit conference, maybe part of some kind of a departmental administrative
procedure.
So, again, that's how the CEO can support the auditor in practice. That functional line, though, that's the
stuff we were talking about in terms of approving the budget, doing the performance appraisal, making
sure a quality assurance program's in place, making sure the auditor's complying with the standards. So
that's that difference.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Anthony, I really appreciate that. That's really helpful. And this has been
absolutely sobering, fascinating, and incredibly informative for me as a board member. And so one, I
appreciate you all's candidacy. And you just giving it to us straight, because I think that's really what we
need, especially as we-- I won't babble. So I-- there's-- it's good, and thank you very much for it.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, absolutely. There's a line in here that just comes to my attention. It's right after
the conclusions. It says number for, implementing an ethics training program and anonymous hotline. So I
have two-- I have a question, not necessarily about that, but about how we move forward as a Board. And
I would say that we've had some pretty good discussion about the Board being policy makers and the
General Manager being able to-- the General Manager responsible for the day-to-day operations.
And as I was reading the recommendations, I just want to be clear as a Board member, where do board
members-- what are some of the recommendations that us board members are responsible for versus the
recommendations that the staff or our General Manager are responsible for so that we aren't, as Board
members, really dabbling in the day to day-MICHAEL FUCILLI: Implementing.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, yeah.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: And we can give you that. We could give you-- categorize each one of those
recommendations. But just bear in mind, you're responsible to ensure that full implementation of all those
recommendations. You're not necessarily going to do it. Some of those are going to be done by your
General Manager.

But we could tell you which ones change the bylaws. Staff management would perhaps be the conduit to
achieve that and would do that on your behalf, and then you would review it and approve it. Elizabeth,
you have anything to add there?
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: I think Anthony had his hand up.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: OK.
ELIZABETH SULLIVAN: Did you cover it?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Oh, I didn't see it.
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: Oh, well, Director Lewis, my thoughts were is that when you fully implement the
recommendations into the Internal Audit Charter, that charter is going to serve as a guide, and it's going
to vary-- it's going to delineate the Board's responsibilities, the auditor's responsibilities, and how that-and how those two interact with each other. So it'll become more clear after that charter is fully
implemented.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Anthony, that's really helpful. So essentially, the Board just needs to step
up, get our stuff together, and get started. So thank you so much. I really appreciate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. That's why I said at the beginning of my remarks that we
have a lot of work to do. But it's good, and it's a fresh start for us. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and really, I just want to reflect what others have said. Thank you so
much. It's really pretty incredible work that you put together in a how-to for us to start all that work. And I
appreciate also the work from Chair Catlin and Director Davidson and the GM. Thanks so much to all of
you.
I just had a question. A couple of my questions have been answered, but there was a slide about the
audit work papers and audit reports that were reviewed. Some of those-- that was-- they were pretty old.
And I was just curious if there was a reason for that or if that was just a selection of what you saw or
what-MICHAEL FUCILLI: They were-- generally, you would audit in the past, right? So you wouldn't do
anything in progress. You have to do completed work. But you wouldn't look at audits ongoing. But I
believe we picked the majority of them were from the last year or two, which then would fall within the
realm of doing it, the standard says, every five years. So in essence, your population is the last five years.
We kept it just two years back. And plus-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: No problem. And we didn't want any issues with the pandemic and being that you
were virtual, impact the ability of those audits. It wouldn't be a fair assessment of your norm. So we tried
to look pre-pandemic.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, I must have been reading it wrong. So thanks-MICHAEL FUCILLI: That's OK, no problem.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Gussinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It does, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't have a question, just an observation, I guess. As a
former city manager and finance director-- there goes my other phone.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: It's the finance department. [LAUGHTER]

BOB BROOM: But anyway, one of the first things I noticed when I got on the Board was that the Internal
Auditor reported to the General Manager. And I knew that that wasn't really the best arrangement. So I
asked Dave about it, and he said, well, I don't like it either. The Board just didn't want to have that
responsibility, so they gave it to me to do.
And, you know, that response didn't surprise me because I had that same problem with a city council
where I suggested they have an Audit Committee and that the Internal Auditor should report to them and
not to me as city manager. Because obviously, you could have some conflicts of interest there. If things
weren't going good, there'd be a tendency maybe to sweep things under the rug.
So I do think it belongs in a small just Audit Committee. Don't mix it with the finance part of it. And the
other thing that we do wrong as an organization is we've got these huge committees rather than small
committees that concentrate on certain areas of expertise. And then the other thing we do is we change
these committees every year so that there's no continuity to follow up.
Now, to me, this is going to take three to five years in order to fix. And so you should have some
continuity on the Board. So when the Audit Committee is appointed, don't pick people that have got a
year or two left on the Board. Pick somebody that's got some times where they could see it through to its
conclusion, thank you.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Director Broom, if I was reading a book on governance, I would read all of those
things that you just mentioned, so you're spot on.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Broom, good observation. Director Davidson, you and I have had
numerous discussions about this, and I'd really like to hear your thoughts, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. I'm sure we'll have a lot more discussions, especially
after this evening. I know we've been waiting on some action. Yeah, first of all, actually, Director Broom,
thank you for your comments. I'm chuckling here because they all resonate. Certainly agree, and I would
say that one of the most surprising things to me joining this Board was the reporting structure of audit.
And so certainly, that's some material work that we can do pretty immediately.
I'll start. I don't really have any questions at this point, and that's in large part to what I'll say the thank you
for. Thank you for the specificity of the report. The report was very helpful. It was well documented. It's
not overly lengthy, but it is specific, and that is very, very much appreciated.
The comment I would just make is I think we're all aware. I mean, boards delegate much of the functions
of an organization to management, but one function that a Board typically holds on to is the audit function.
Managing, that is, understanding, measuring, mitigating risk, is critical, even down to the smallest of startups, something near and dear to me.
So this is certainly something that we have to take on. I think what's abundantly clear, we have a lot of
problems here. And we own those as a Board. And I think one of the things that will come out of this is we
need a timeline, a project plan with milestones, accountability.
Completely agree, Director Broom, with your comments that this is going to take some time. Director
Dishell, I agree that this is-- I would call it the turnaround. So I just would say I look forward to working
with all of you and the Board on this. Again, thank you to the team from APTA, exceptional, exceptional
work.
It just-- how specific this is gives us a starting point, and I'm sure we'll take some next steps. And I would
just echo the other sentiments that I think we need to get this into a smaller dedicated committee sooner

rather than later so we can put together a project plan that we own and that we're accountable to as a
Board. So thank you for the opportunity to comment.
The fact that I don't have any questions, again, is very much to the credit of how strong this report is. I'm
sure we'll have a lot as we put together a plan, but thank you for the willingness of the APTA team to
answer questions and stick with us as we put together an action plan. I'll leave it there. Thank you very
much, appreciate it Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson, and also for your dedication to getting this done. We
shared an interest in this early on. I would like to see if General Manager CEO Johnson would like to add
anything to this discussion, because I don't see any more board members with their hands raised.
And I would really like-- I want to thank you, Ms. Johnson, for having the resources and the relationships
at APTA to get this thing pulled together so quickly. And it's really to your credit that we got this done. So I
personally want to thank you, but please, go ahead and comment, if you will.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity. And once again, thank
you to our colleagues at APTA for the great work that was done. I don't really have too much to add. As I
shared with some of you independently and then collectively, I think we have an opportunity to course
correct.
Some of the comments that were made, i.e. by Director Davidson as well as by Director Broom, I too, in
turn, thought the same thing when I came into this organization and saw the reporting structure,
recognizing the role of the Board and the auspices over risk mitigation and things of a light that this
should be a path taken.
And that's what led me to ensure that we were leveraging a peer review relative to the transportation
industry to look at what other agencies were doing so we were in line with that. Whether it's good, bad, or
indifferent, I think basically, there is an opportunity for us to level set what it is that we're doing
collectively, recognizing that it was referenced, that there's a state audit.
We do have timelines before us. I recognize that rests with all of you. But recognizing the first step in
which we have taken relative to having capable peers with subject matter expertise at a high level of the
acumen in this area, I think this will chart our path forward. And whatever I can do in my capacity to
support that endeavor, I think, is first and foremost to ensuring that you all can be successful, we all could
be successful as an organization by discerning the risk to this enterprise that we have here with the
Regional Transportation District.
So with that, I am happy, as I have been doing to coordinate with Mr. Henry at APTA, to facilitate any
further discussions. I have been working in tandem with Madam Chair and Mr. Vice Chair as relates to
some discussions around our path forward, which I think are germane because time is of the essence
here.
And if anything, as I shared with you all before when I came on the-- to the organization, I was going to
turn over the rocks, and we're uncovering more rocks. But we're in a quarry. That doesn't mean we can't
get out. And I think now it gives us an opportunity to step back and discern what it is that we need to do
collectively.
And with you all being the policy body, I think there's a willingness and there's an appetite to get it done,
then we can all do it collectively. So with that, thank you very much, Madam Chair and Mr. Vice Chair for
your leadership on this matter. And thanks, again, to APTA. And that concludes my comments, thanks.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I noticed that Dr. Rosenthal had his hand up, but he dropped
it. Would you care to comment?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Sorry, I was going to make an observation and ask a
question, and then you went to the General Manager. So I hate to follow the General Manager, but I just
sort of had an observation that my sense is that a lot of these things as we've probably discussed earlier.
But these been building over time. Some of these things maybe days, months, years, maybe even
decades to where these are issues that-- and correct me if some of the auditors might chime in and say,
hey, these are more in the past few years. I don't know how far back they went.
But it seems to me, I'm glad that we had APTA review it. I'm glad that the Board and the General
Manager asked for this review. But at the same time, understanding that some of this stuff has been
building over time. What is the sense of the auditors on that?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Oh, [INAUDIBLE] this has been going on at least eight years. It's not something that
happened last year or because of the pandemic. This is systemic to the organization. So I would say it
goes back at least eight years. And look at your state audit as well would reinforce that.
So from an Audit Committee perspective, from a Board perspective, I've spoke to many of boards in my
time. And believe me, I know no better way to spend a Tuesday night than talk to a robust Board as
yourself that is-- that appreciates internal auditing. So you have the most important attribute that's
needed, that interest, that tone at the top to correct these issues. And there's no doubt in my mind it will.
But this is not something that happened last year. This is something that goes back, I would say, 8 to 10
years.
ANTHONY GAROFOLI: And I would add that it's both a cultural issue as well as a practice issue.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Absolutely, absolutely.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then if I could follow up-- and maybe I missed something in the report or in the
presentation and discussion, but sort of the urgency of which recommendations should be done
immediately, which ones-- obviously, they're all urgent and they all need to be done ASAP. But if one
takes a week and one takes a month, what is the-- how would you make that recommendation here?
MICHAEL FUCILLI: I think that's a good question. Who is responsible for these recommendations? It's
certainly not the entire Board. It's not the Board only. It's your Chief Order Executive. It's executive
management and it's the Board. You have 17 recommendations, which would [INAUDIBLE] concurrently.
A lot of them could be done at the same time.
You may not complete all of them at the same time, but you certainly could start on them. And they would
be done by those three principals. I don't know your Board structures. You have an office that would help
facilitate your responsibilities, but I think changing the bylaws, I think management would come up with
bylaws and discuss it with the Board. And then you would revise it and implement it.
So management would help the Board, and then management would have some of that [INAUDIBLE]
responsibility for. And then you CAE would drive a lot of them as well. At least half of the
recommendations will be driven by who you place-- who's in charge of your audit department. So you
have that three-prong effort to implement those. It wouldn't be one person doing all 17.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, that's all I have.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what? It is approaching the 9:30 mark for our guests tonight on the East
Coast. And I very much want to thank them for accommodating our schedule to this evening. And we will
be moving into our regular Board meeting upon adjournment of this meeting.

But I just would say, we have a lot of work to do and a lot of questions that we will need to answer. And
as we move forward with this important work, I do appreciate the offer of our guests tonight to continue to
be available to help us with this.
One thing I would add-- I talked to some previous Board members who were on the Board more than
eight years ago who actually called me and said, I understand you're starting to look at internal audit. And
this particular Board member said, I can't Thank you enough, because that is something that I had
wanted to do. And it was more like 12 years ago. So Michael, you said it was systemic, and I think it is.
So-MICHAEL FUCILLI: And cultural, as Anthony added.
PEGGY CATLIN: But this is a new Board, and we have an opportunity to change the culture, and look
forward to doing it. Is there anything-- are there any other matters to come before this committee before
we entertain adjournment? Should we take a-- Chair Rivera-Malpiede, should we take a brief break?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I'd like to do maybe a 10-minute break only because everybody's been
sitting for two hours. And then we'll reconvene at 7:40. OK, so we are adjourned at 7:31. Thank you all
again.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Thank you. Thank you, take care.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Bye bye, thank you. Thank you, John, Elizabeth, Anthony, thank you.
JOHN HENRY: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, you guys, bye.
MICHAEL FUCILLI: Bye.

