2022-09-13
Finance and Planning Committee Part 1
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, we'll go ahead and get started. Nice to see everybody. The Finance and
Planning Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thanks for joining us.
As has been the case, please note that under our current circumstances our official meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors and our committees are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and
welfare for the immediate future, as we've been doing. We'll continue to be holding these meetings via
Zoom, but they will be audio and video recorded and can be accessed at rtd-denver.com, as well as our
unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press
star 6.
We'll now go ahead and call the roll for our committee members. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Committee Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am here, so that is seven committee members present, zero absent. And for the
sake of the record, I would also like to note that we are joined this evening by-- I see Director Williams,
Director Sloan, Director Tisdale. Thank you for joining us this evening. We'll go ahead and move into our

public comment period. This public comment period is for anyone who would like to address this
committee specifically regarding any topic in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding month. If
You wish to speak and have not already done so, you may raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on the
phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. And, again, if you're dialed in, you can press
star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that if you do participate in this process, you are
being recorded. And if you do not wish to be recorded, you can certainly submit your comments in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the committee, please submit those to our
Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During any public comments, the committee members will not offer any responses. Directors or staff
members may contact speakers following their comments if the matters do lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should please begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have 3
minutes.
I will turn to our Board staff team and just ask, do we see any hands raised in the queue? And I do see
Director Sloan's hand up. Director Sloan, is there something you would wanted to say at this point in the
meeting?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I see Director Cook is online as well.
TROY WHITMORE: [INAUDIBLE] committee.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, yes, I got her attendance in the committee roll call, thank you. Are there any
speakers in the queue?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Director Davidson, I don't see any speakers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Tai-Shrae. So with no speakers, and also, we did not receive
any emailed comments for tonight's meeting, we will go ahead and close the public comment period at
this time. As we have noted before, we have restructured our agenda this year to move up our
information from external entities and there are four items this evening to be presented during the section
of information from external entities.
The first is regarding our sales and use tax forecast. I'll go ahead and ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief
Financial Officer, and the representatives here from the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business
to present our sales and use tax forecast. Thank you for joining us. Please, Mr. MacLeod, go ahead and
begin and feel free to hand off to our guests. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great, thank. you, Chair Davidson, and good evening. Each year, we have two sales
and use tax forecasts provided by the team from the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business,
who have joined us tonight. Those forecasts are used for the budget as well as the midterm financial plan.
Typically, that forecast is produced and provided to RTD in March and September.
I'd like to thank the team from CU for providing it a month early in August, since we have a condensed
time frame. Much appreciated that you got that to us early. I'd like to point out that last time, in April, when
the last review was done with this committee for the March forecast, we attached the actual forecast to
the Board package. I neglected to do that this time, and I will attach that after this meeting, so it will be
included with the presentation materials.

So without further ado, I'd like to introduce Robert McNown, Rich Wobbekind, and Brian Lewandowski to
make a presentation. Gentlemen, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead and feel free to start.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Brian's connecting to audio.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, great.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Sorry, I lost my connection.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Thank you.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: So I can kick us off. Thank you, everyone for having us back. We're here to
present the update to the sales and use tax forecast. I'm Brian Lewandowski, I'm the Executive Director of
the Business Research Division, and we're joined with Rich Wobbekin, who's the Faculty Director of the
Business Research Division, who will provide an economic update on the macroeconomic environment,
and then Robert McNaughton will follow that with the forecast update, and he'll talk about some of the
revisions to the forecast that we're seeing. Rich?
RICH WOBBEKIND: We have the slides, Brian? Or do you want me to do the slides? Sorry, folks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem?
RICH WOBBEKIND: You're muted, so we can't hear what you're saying.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: It's frozen, right now, Rich-- my PowerPoint is. Are you able to share yours?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Give me a second. Hopefully, yes.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I'm just restarting mine. Here we go.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Got it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Great. Thank you, Brian. So as Brian was indicating, this is part of, now, a fiveperson effort that we have been doing for quite a number of years for RTD. If you move along to the next
slide-- and as Brian explained, our team prepares the sales and use forecasts for RTD providing this
comprehensive report with data analysis on the macro economy.
And what typically occurs is I give a little brief update starting with the next slide on the macro economy,
and then my colleague Robert McNown will be talking to you about the revisions to the forecast. So this is
a very brief update. We're happy to take questions on the macro economy, on the state economy, and,
obviously, on the actual forecast when we're done with the presentation.
So as you can see, we've had two corridors of negative GDP growth. There's been a lot of discussion
about whether or not the economy is in a recession at this particular point in time. We do not believe that
to be the case, and I'm not going to bore you with the reasons why. But we're using what you see there,
with the tan line that's on the screen is the trend of the forecast going forward. And you can see it's pretty

flat going out through 2023. And this is the driver, of course, for our modeling. We're using the baseline
forecast from Moody's analytics, and this baseline forecast is really calling for tepid growth in the
economy in 2023.
When we move a little further along, we talk about the nonfarm employment, you can see that the number
now at this point has gotten back to a number higher than it was in February of 2020. That part is, of
course, very encouraging, but if you were to draw a trend line across the slide from where we were in
February of 2020 to where we are now, we would be falling about 2 million jobs short of if we had stayed
on the trend line. So while it's a positive that we've gotten back to this same level of employment at this
point in time and gotten back there rapidly, based on prior recession kinds of recoveries, it still falls well
short of where we would be had we never had the COVID downturn.
Next slide.
So one of the things, of course, that stimulated this rapid recovery was a tremendous amount of fiscal
stimulus from the federal government, as well as monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve. And the
fiscal stimulus is illustrated on this particular slide. When you look at the tan line at the top, personal
income, you can see-- thank you, Brian, that's great-- you can see the bumps of the actual stimulus
checks that went out-- the first one in April of 2020, the next one in January of 2021, and then the final,
President Biden's push, in March of 2021.
So those relate, as you look down to the blue, you can see the incredible drop-off in consumption as we
shut the economy down. But now, if you look further out to the right, basically, the consumption on the
blue line is very consistent with where we would have been with trend. So consumption does not seem to
have lost anything with the downturn. In fact, I'll show you a slide in a little bit that may suggest that we're
even at a higher point of consumption than we were prior to the COVID recession.
And maybe the most interesting line on this slide it's showing you is the red savings rate slide. And this is,
again, a monthly data slide. And you can see the steep move up upwards that Brian's highlighting with the
pointer that occurred when we got these stimulus checks. So maybe not so surprising, the first one, with
people being very concerned in the economy and shutdown mode. They've saved a lot of that check, but
then the second and the third checks-- a lot of that money went into savings and created what we will call
excess savings in the economy.
Right now, we're at a very low savings rate, the lowest savings rate we've been at since the global
financial crisis recession of 2008. So why is that? Well, I would make the case that it's being impacted
significantly by inflation in the economy. People are spending more of their current income to maintain the
quality of life that they've become used to. We'll also see that they're spending-- we also know that they
have spent more of those excess savings that were accumulated based on data that we look at. And
they're also piling on a little bit more debt right now, something I'll show you here in just a second.
So if you look at this slide, we can see the inflation numbers, and this is as of last week. The new
numbers just came out this morning, and while the overall number went down to 8.3%, which was good
news, we did see a big jump up in the core inflation number at the bottom. And this is an area of concern
for the overall inflation battle, if you will.
When you see a little bit more in core, there's a couple of things that make me sort of nervous as an
economist. One thing is that I know that the Federal Reserve pays a lot more attention to core inflation
than they do to the overall inflation number. So when the Federal Reserve sees a big jump up in the core

inflation, as came in today, that gives them a little bit more concern about fighting the inflation battle, if
you will.
I also want to highlight, just really quickly, before we move on from this slide, because inflation is such a
big topic in the economy, If you look at the far right-hand column, you get a sense of the weights. And the
things that really are impacting the economy the most in terms of the weights-- food and beverages,
housing, and transportation-- those three items alone account for about 75% of the Consumer Price
Index. So we pay a lot of attention-- transportation, fuel costs have been coming down, but we still
continue to see food and beverage prices and housing prices continue to increase. And we'll be paying a
lot of attention to those as we go forward.
So this is a report of the actual interest rates, and you can see the big surge upward that's occurred in
both the federal funds rate, the tan line on the bottom, but maybe more importantly, the mortgage rates,
the blue line that you see here. And although not nearly at historic highs by any means, even recent
historic highs-- meaning the last years. You can see that we have rates higher than that prior to the global
financial crisis-- still a pretty dramatic increase and a pretty dramatic increase that occurred in a relatively
short period of time.
The right-hand graph illustrates what I was mentioning a moment ago, that we've seen a pretty big jump
up in home mortgage debt. That's the darker colored or black bars. And then also seeing a movement up
in consumer credit debt, which is the tan. So consumers are using debt as an instrument to continue to be
able to purchase homes in this higher rate environment or higher interest rate environment, but also to
consume goods and services.
So here we are with the key Colorado indicators and state rank. And this is a variation of a slide that
we've shown the Board in the past, but this is just a one-year look at the percentage number and also a
one-year number for the rank. And as you can see, in a lot of the categories, we're somewhere in the 10
to 15 range-- in GDP growth, at the state level, in employment growth, and population growth. A couple of
the categories were actually doing a little bit better-- personal income growth and per capita personal
income growth.
And the one I would particularly draw your attention to-- the ones I will draw particularly draw your
attention to are the bottom two lines, the labor force participation rate, where we have the second highest
labor force participation rate in the country and the highest it's been in many years, even pre-COVID, and
then when we look at the Federal Housing Finance Authority's home price index growth, you can see we
have the 13th highest home price index growth, and this is through Q2.
We've seen a lot of indications. I've gotten questions here from the Board before on housing affordability
and impact on the economy and so on, and I would highlight that the more recent data that we're seeing
on the housing market is certainly indicating a flattening of home prices in the last couple of months and
even a decline in certain parts of the metro areas.
Next slide, please.
So this is what I was referring to earlier. Right now, we look at the retail sales number and it looks like it's
taken off and going to a new level, a different sort of slope than it had in the past-- not slope but different
sort of level really going all the way back to what it was pre-2008 recession, so jumping back to an old
line, all the way back to there-- old trend line. And we'll see whether that maintains. I mean, part of the
reason that's maintaining is because of inflation right now. So we'll see whether or not this continues out.

The month over month gain as you can see is pretty minuscule, but year over year is still very strong
through July.
And then we look at state sales tax collections. Again, through July-- 10% increase. So we're starting to
see pretty big movements, the 12-month moving average over the year is 16.9%. So this is a very strong
number, but we're wondering if there's weakness out there, just given what we're seeing as some of the
national numbers and given what we've seen somewhat more recently in national sorts of retail sales
numbers.
So now I'm going to pass the baton to my colleague, Robert McNown, and he's going to talk to you about
the RTD forecast and the numbers that are in the August forecast that we just prepared.
ROBERT MCNOWN: All right, thanks Rich. So Rich has set the national context for the forecast that our
model uses, and as was mentioned, we rely on Moody's analytics for their national forecasts, and those
drive forecasts for the Colorado economy, as you see in this sketch on the left, although another
takeaway from Rich's presentation is that, of course, the Colorado economy does not move in lockstep
with the national economy. Instead, our model takes into account some interdependence among
Colorado economic indicators, although with the national indicators as important drivers. And then the
Colorado economy model, in turn, drives the forecast for RTD sales and use tax revenues.
So for this update, for this forecast, we've shifted to Moody's baseline forecast, whereas previously, in
March, we used a more pessimistic scenario, a more conservative one. But since that time, we've
accumulated more data that leads us to believe that the Moody's baseline is the most plausible projection
of the national economy, and we're going forward with that in this particular forecast.
So back in March, we only had data through the end of 2021, and now we, of course, always will update
with the latest information.
So here, you're going to see a lot of numbers, and I'll only point to a few. I don't want to overwhelm you
here. But just seeing what's happening in the current year, that's pretty robust national growth, as
indicated, for example, by retail sales, not so much by GDP. But the unemployment rate has gone quite
low and employment growth is quite strong. And, of course, this is all tempered by the observation that
consumer price inflation is pretty close to 8%. This is with the projection for the last several months from
Moody's.
And then take a peek at 2023, and you can see that there's considerable weakening on some of these
key indicators. And we'll see that in the forecasts going forward.
So on the next slide is the US variables, as I mentioned, are among the key drivers of the forecasts for
the Colorado indicators. And, again, focusing on the current year, you can see that our model forecasts a
consumer price inflation that's a little bit higher than the national. And, actually, if you move on to 2023,
that forecast of 5.7% is substantially higher than what Moody's is projecting nationally. Any rate, across
2022-- very strong indicators for the current year. And, as we'll see, that's driving very strong growth in
RTD sales and use tax revenues.
Quite a bit of weakening in 2023, and, in fact, that percent change in retail sales, that 1.2%, that is really
extremely weak, particularly when we recognize that that's far below the rate of inflation that we're
anticipating for the next year.

So what's going on here? Well, I think the modeling incorporates what's currently happening to the US
and Colorado economies, that there are a number of severe dislocations that are being created by
inflation in particular, by the Fed policy of raising the interest rates and cutting back on the purchase of-reducing their purchases of financial assets.
And with continuing supply issues, and then, I think, most importantly, pointing back to one of Rich's
slides, that decline in the savings rate. And, of course, that means that, ultimately, households are going
to have to retrench, and that can be an important explanation for that very slow rate of growth in retail
sales in the next year. So keep your eye on that going forward.
Next slide.
So this is the heart of the matter, the forecasts of sales and use tax revenues and total RTD revenues.
And I think focusing on the percentage changes in the current year-- most of the year is already
embedded in the actual data. So we're pretty confident that sales tax revenues will grow pretty close to
10.6%. We had our projections for the rest of the year. Use tax revenues are solid and total tax revenues- 10.3% growth.
Now, of course, we take that with a grain of salt, because a good portion of this increase is eaten away by
inflation. And, for example, if RTD's expenditures face higher prices, comparable to what households do-in your case, higher labor costs, higher equipment costs, higher fuel costs, and so on-- then, of course,
this rather robust growth in total tax revenues is not going to be so much growth in real terms, once we
take account of inflation.
And then, looking at 2023, you can see that very weak projection of retail sales growth is going forward in
terms of sales tax revenues, growing at only 1.4%. And, again, that's in the face of very strong inflation.
So that's really a pretty negative picture, I have to say, for RTD revenues for the next year.
Next slide.
Now we want to compare the current projection and where we stand today and, also, in comparison with
the March forecast-- the March forecast shown by the green line there. So you can see that, for 2022, our
forecast turned out considerably below the actual realization by that red line. But then the two lines are
converging here in 2023. So it does seem that the main difference in the forecast currently and back in
March is a matter of timing, that 2022 has turned out to be considerably stronger. Now we're looking at
2023, the projection that is considerably weaker.
And now, as we move towards 2024, the two lines are converging, suggesting that most of the growth in
RTD revenues really is occurring in the current year is going to be tempered by slower growth in 2023 so
that for the rest of our what we see here, the medium-term forecast out to 2028, the two projections are
very similar.
So we present to RTD three different forecasts, a short-term quarterly forecast, this medium-term forecast
with the annual data, and then, also, a longer-term forecast that goes out to 2050, as we'll see in a
minute. So here in the medium-term forecast, we also present a number of alternative scenarios based
on different Moody's scenarios. And that's presented there in the colored lines-- optimistic, baseline, and
pessimistic.

And then, the dashed lines, the tan lines on the outside there, the high forecast and low forecast, those
are statistically-based confidence bounds, so that we would judge, with a 67% probability, the actual
realized revenues will fall between those dashed lines.
Now one reason for presenting these alternative forecasts, of course, is that if the Board decides that it's
important to be very conservative, then you might opt for a more pessimistic forecast, like the red line.
One thing that I think is encouraging here is that even that pessimistic forecast, that red line, shows that
with the dip down in 2023, their collections are still higher than they were at the end of 2021. So even the
pessimistic forecast is not grim by any means.
Now the baseline forecast that we're emphasizing shows a 37% increase from 2021 out to 2028. And by
2028, revenues will rise to slightly above $1 billion.
And let's go to the next slide.
So here is a summary of our long-term model forecast. And this model is grounded in demographic
factors that we think in the long run that's going to be the most important driver of fluctuations in the
national economy and therefore the Colorado economy and RTD revenues. And so you can see that we
don't just have a sort of a straight line extrapolation, but rather variable rates of growth in the three
decades that are presented here in the forecast.
And so you can see, in the current decade, RTD taxable sales are averaging a growth rate of about 5.3%.
And then, stepping down in the following two decades, reflecting the slowing population growth nationally
as well as in the state and the district, and also the aging of the population, which will have negative
consequences for saving, investment, and probably productivity growth as well.
Final, next slide then.
And I do want to emphasize that we present these forecasts based on what the model dictates. We don't
incorporate add factors or subjective judgments of the model forecasts. But, instead, we try to build a
model that is theoretically sound and meets state of the art econometric criteria. The BRD, the Business
Research Division of Leeds, is independent from RTD. We don't have any particular political or financial
stake in the forecasts, although, of course, we want them to be as accurate and useful as possible.
So finally, the next slide.
We'd be happy to take any questions about the economy forecasts, the revenue forecasts, or whatever
you have in mind.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the presentation, and, as always, very thorough and very
much appreciated. I'll go ahead and open up the floor for some discussions and questions. I see Director
Dishell first in the queue.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks Director Davidson, and thanks always for a great presentation. Question,
actually, more on the macroeconomic trends that were presented, specifically around jobs-- one of the
biggest challenges we're grappling with is people power. And jobs are now at or above where they were
prepandemic, and our labor force participation rate is higher than it's been, even prepandemic.
Yet the shortages continue to show up, not just for RTD, but across the economy. Are we just less, quote
unquote, "productive," meaning people are maybe balancing their lives better? I mean, what, from a

macroeconomic standpoint, explains the sort of high supply of jobs-- workforce is higher than it's been
before, and yet we have vacancies higher than they were before as well.
RICH WOBBEKIND: So I'll take first shot at that. I don't know if Brian and Robert want to jump in. So the
participation rate is extremely high in Colorado. It is still several percentage points below where it was at
the national level. So we have a shortage there directly relating to your question.
And a second piece is population growth has slowed fairly dramatically at the national level. Some of that
is migration into the country. Some of that driven by COVID, some may be driven by politics a few years
ago, or whatever, but, certainly, COVID had a big impact on that. And so just with the overall population
growing at such a low rate, it's difficult to bring more people into the labor force.
A third phenomena that we're paying attention to, and Brian is particularly focused on, is the decrease in
multiple job holders. So if I do this during the day, and then at night, I go wait a table, I've got two jobs in
the economy. Well, right now, there are 600,000 fewer people who are holding two jobs than they were
prior to the pandemic.
And so the question is are these people-- is the one job they have better and paying more and all of those
kinds of things, or are people opting for a different lifestyle because they experienced things in COVID
and they don't want to go back to the way things were? I mean, we have different sort of explanations for
that. But at the national level, that's accounting for 600,000 job gap, that one particular piece.
So this is a challenge, and it's, I think and we see, particularly a challenge for small business right now.
The larger businesses are able to perhaps offer higher wages, but the government is struggling mightily. I
didn't show this slide in the presentation, but government employment is substantially below what it was
pre-COVID. And we're seeing it in state and local government, local government in particular, and we're
seeing it very heavily in education-- by the way, teacher education-- teachers and support staff for
schools.
So this is a big issue, and when we're speaking to different entities, we spoke to Westminster. We work
with Westminster, and they were talking about what kinds of things they're going to have to do to
incentivize people to work for the city of Westminster because they have so many open jobs. And I think
that's a common sort of thing we're hearing right now.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK, thank you. That's really helpful.
RICH WOBBEKIND: You're most welcome. Good question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for that. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. When you drive by auto dealerships in the Denver area, lots are empty
and their windows don't have any cars in them. That means there's no inventory. What kind of percentage
of the total use tax due we get from automobile sales, and are we really starting to get a lot of pent-up
demand that we might realize in the next couple of years?
RICH WOBBEKIND: I don't have that number, Brian. Can you see that number?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: That's a number that we can access, so I will pass that over to Doug after this
meeting, so you can share it out with the Board.

DOUG MACLEOD: I'm sorry, this is Doug MacLeod. I do have those numbers for July. So of our top 25
individual industry producers, new car dealers are number three, after all general, other, and
merchandising retailers. Second is full service restaurants. But new car dealers-- approximately $70
million per month in sales taxes. We received in July $3.9 million. That compares to the previous July of
$3.8 million-- so relatively flat year over year.
RICH WOBBEKIND: And the new sales are about running about, give or take, $13.5 million. They were
$16 million going into the pandemic, so we do see-- and some of it is supply chain, as you're, I think,
alluding to, boardmember Broom. But I do think there's a pent-up demand there. I'm just a little concerned
about the inflationary piece right now, whether or not consumers might hunker down a little bit, given the
inflation numbers and given some of the other things we reported tonight.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

BOB BROOM: A lot of people, when the inflation is so high, decide they need to start spending because
their dollars aren't going to buy as much in the future. We may start to see that kind of spending.
ROBERT MCNOWN: I was going to add specifically on the auto sales and the revenues generated by
that, even for 2023, that's one of the brighter sides. We do break down our forecasts of sales tax
revenues into several key components, auto sales being one of those. And I don't have the exact number
at my fingertips, but I believe it was around 7% growth in sales tax revenues due to auto sales. And you
can see that's considerably higher than what we're getting in terms of the growth in total sales tax
revenues. So that's one of the positive sectors. Restaurants are as well.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. That's all I have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Seeing no further questions in the queue, I did have just one
question I wanted to touch upon-- obviously, late breaking news here, so not asking you to revisit the
model-- but that 2023 number certainly is one we have to pay attention to and sobering. And as you
mentioned, especially as we face inflation, would you expect to even further decrease that picture based
on today's announcement that, of course, 6.3-- a little bit of a surprise increase from the 5.9. Is it fair to
assume that may push us even closer to that pessimistic line, or just if you wouldn't mind commenting on
that as we consider next year?
ROBERT MCNOWN: My own opinion on that is that I try not to react too dramatically to month-to-month
changes in economic indicators. And, in fact, in this case, it was a very minor difference from the previous
data. It's just expectations were such they were hoping that inflation was going to be considerably lower
because of the observed decline in gas prices.
But I would say that the projection for 2023 sales and US tax revenues is already so pessimistic, I
wouldn't expect it to go negative, for example.
RICH WOBBEKIND: So I have two answers for that because we're two economists so we have to have
two different answers. Let me just say, I agree with Professor McNown, and, actually, the higher inflation
rate might be better in terms of the retail sales number because we're doing nominal numbers, not real
numbers.

My concern-- and I think what was reflected in the stock market today-- was a belief that the Federal
Reserve not only will do 0.75, but may do a full 100 basis point move because they are nervous about
core inflation. I was kind of alluding to that in my presentation. And the employment numbers have been
so good-- I didn't address this, but the weekly unemployment claims numbers have been very low in the
economy, in addition to the new employment numbers that are being released.
So they might feel they have a little bit more leeway, and that little bit more leeway with a little bit higher
interest rate increases maybe slows the economy down a little bit more, just to directly address your
question. So I mean, I do think it's something worth noting, but I would also concur with my colleague that
looking at one month's data is a little scary and you need to keep this stuff in perspective a little bit more
than just a monthly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, fair enough. Well, thank you for the answer to that. I appreciate that. It sounds
like there's a start of a joke in there-- two economists walk into a bar. But I appreciate the feedback on
that. Thank you.
Any further questions from any of my colleagues here? Well, gentlemen, it's always a pleasure and
always very interesting to see your presentation. So thank you for being thorough and yet succinct. Very
much appreciated, and thank you for joining us this evening.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Our pleasure, thank you.
ROBERT MCNOWN: We always enjoy working with our colleagues at RTD. So we'll see you again in six
months.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, gentlemen. We'll see you soon. Take care.
All right, we're going to move to our next discussion item this evening and this is regarding the non
represented employee pension plan fund status so I'm going to turn this over again to Mr. Doug MacLeod,
our chief financial officer, and the representatives here this evening to please present the discussion item.
Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Each year, we like to bring the actuaries in from each of
the pension plans to give the Board an update. We try to time it before the budget process because some
of the funding, obviously, has to do with the budget. On the nonrepresented side, we also refer to as
salaried employees.
We have two retirement plans that RTD funds, one being the Defined Benefit Pension Plan, which we'll
be discussing tonight. That is in effect for employees that were hired prior to January 1, 2008. Everybody
else, who was hired on the nonrepresentated side, subsequent to that, participates in a Defined
Contribution Plan.
So joining me tonight to discuss that Defined Benefit Pension plan is Wendy Landa, the actuary for the
trust. Wendy, please, when you're ready.
WENDY LONDA: Hello. Good evening, everybody. I'm going to try to share my screen. Hopefully I'm
picking the right one here. Let's see. Do you all see my presentation?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We do, thank you.

WENDY LONDA: Perfect. I'm glad that works. Always nice when technology works. So, as Doug
mentioned, I'm going to give you an update on the salary plan funding status. So I'm going to start by
going over the valuation highlights as of 2022. I'll go over a new slide on the recommended contribution
for some long-term funding and wrap up with a projection slide.
So this first slide gives you a comparison of what happened last year versus this year. I just want to point
out first that the January 2022 results reflect assumption changes that were discussed with the salaried
plan trustees last month and approved. So these reflect that. I'll go a little bit more detail what they are a
little bit later. So you can see the participant count declined-- in total, 609 down to 584, so a decline of 25
participants. And the active participant declined by 40. This is to be expected, since the plan was closed
to new participants back in 2008.
The liability of the plan-- this is the value of all benefits earned as of each valuation date-- increased by
2.5 million from 185.5 to 188 million as participants continue to earn additional benefits. And the actuarial
value of assets-- this is the plan's smoothed value of assets. We recognize each year's investment gain or
loss over a five-year period. So 20% each year is recognized, and this helps to mitigate some big swings
in the market, as we've seen lately, for the funded percentage of the plan. So it kind of steadies things out
a little bit.
So the actuarial value or smoothed value of assets increased from $144.3 million to $146.5 million, and
this is because of an 8.7% return on the actuarial value of assets. This compares to our 7% assumption,
so it's a gain of 1.7% over what we expected. And then the footnote 3 tells you about the market value.
So the market return during 2021 was 13.7%. Again, that compares to our 7% assumption, so a nice gain
of 6.7% there.
The unfunded liability is basically the plan's debt or mortgage. That is the difference between the liabilities
of the plan and the assets we have to cover those liabilities. And it's $41.2 million last year up to $41.5
million. Not much of an increase, and that's because of the nice return on the assets. So assets increased
nearly as much as the liability-- so just a small increase in the unfunded liability for the plan.
Funded ratio based on the smoothed value of assets this is the actuarial value of assets divided by the
plan's liabilities. So we have-- last year, there was 77.8% assets to cover-- assets to cover 77.8% of the
plan's liabilities, now 77.9%. So it's still increased a little bit despite our assumption changes. We can look
over that a little later. Because of the nice return of the market value funded return-- funded percentage
based on the market value increased from 78.5% to 82.4%, so a 3.9% increase.
The recommended contribution for the plan is the sum of two pieces. That's the sum of the normal cost,
which is the cost of benefits expected to be earned by active participants-- continue to work-- and it's also
the amortization payment of the plan's unfunded liability, so basically the plan's mortgage payment. So
sum of those two figures is equal to the recommended contribution.
Now there's a one-year lag in the recommended contribution. So this $8.3 million last year is actually the
amount that we're-- recommended contribution for the 2022 plan year, and this $8.5 million is actually the
recommended contribution for 2023 because by the time we do it the plan is already 3/4 of the way
through the year.
And then the actual contribution during the year-- so these are a little bit-- so the 8.3 kind of goes more
with the 8.4 over here. $6.1 million was made in 2021 plan year, and $8.4 million of contributions, which is
essentially the recommended contribution was made, or is currently being made in 2022.

So this next slide is a new slide. It shows you the components of the recommended contribution and
those components both in dollar amounts and as a percent of pay. Now the payroll is projected. This isn't
actual. It's projected based on what we know at that time of the valuation. You can see, it's declining. So
$19.7 million was projected for 2021 versus $17.2 million for 2022. Again, we expect a decline because
we've got fewer active participants because the plan was closed.
The normal cost-- again, this is the cost of benefits expected to be earned by active participants during
that year. So there's a slight decline. Again, we'd expect this because there's fewer active participants.
Even though the value of their benefits increase as they get closer to retirement, there's still a slight
decline because there's fewer active participants.
So as a percent of payroll, you can see it goes up-- so 13.2% versus 13.9%. Again, this is because only a
slight decline in the normal cost but a bigger decline in the payroll. So as a percent of a smaller number,
it's a larger percent. Unfunded liability-- went over this before, $41.2 versus $41.5 million. But now we're-the amortization payment, the period declines each year.
So as of January 1, 2021, there were 10 years left in the amortization period. So that $41.2 million paid
over 10 years is $5.7 million a year versus the $41.5 million, which is now being paid over 9 years. So
you're paying a little bit more, but over a shorter period of time, so it's a bigger payment. Because of that,
the amortization payment as a percent of payroll increases from year to year. Again, you've got a smaller
payroll amount, but a bigger cost, so that makes sense.
The total recommended contribution is the sum of these two figures, so the normal cost. $2.6 million plus
the amortization payment of $5.7 million gives you an $8.3 million last year versus $2.4 million plus $6.1
million gives you the $8.5 million contribution. And, again, because of the smaller payroll amount this year
but larger amortization payments, the total as a percent of payroll increases from 42.1% to 49.4%.
Any questions on this page? I know it's a new page. I don't know if anybody has any questions on this
one. Crystal clear? I can go through my whole thing if you want first. It's up to you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, sure. Go ahead and finish up, and I'll ask directors to take any notes of the
questions they may have on the slide. Thank you.
WENDY LONDA: Sure. So the next thing is the funding of the plan. So it's been the same since 2016. So
the contribution each year is to keep the trust actuarially sound, and it's based on the recommendations
of both the actuary and RTD's chief financial officer.
So just to give you a frame, I'd like to start with what happened last year what happens during the year
and then show how it all shakes out. So as of January 1, 2021, the plan was projected to reach 100%
funding in 2031. And, at that time, we had an estimated return of 11.8% during 2021. And this is assumes
all contribution each year is the recommended amount and the plan achieves at 7% return each year.
So what actually did happen during 2021? Well, the return, as I mentioned before, was 13.7% instead of
11.8%, so better than we expected. So that's a plus for the plan. And because, as I mentioned before, the
actuarial value return was 8.7%-- again, this is versus our 7% assumption-- there's a nice gain of $2.4
million on the asset side, but there's a corresponding loss of $2.4 million for liabilities, and this is primarily
due to salary losses. So there were furloughs, furlough reimbursements, salary adjustments, bonuses
paid that we did not expect. And so that created a loss of about $3.5 million.

And as I mentioned earlier, we did an experience study and recommended some assumption changes for
retirement, disability, salary, and the joint and survivor selection percentage. Again, these were discussed
with the salary plan trustees last month and approved, and so they're reflected in this valuation, and the
net impact of the assumption changes was an increase in the liability of $1.1 million and the
corresponding increase in the recommended contribution of about $300,000.
So now, if we take all of this, what actually happened during 2021, what does it look like now? So as of
January 2022, with an $8.4 million contribution this year, the plan is still projected to reach 100% funding
in 2031. So all is good-- same thing.
But now what's happened since January 2022? Unfortunately, as you've all alluded to, the nice-- not so
nice-- volatility in the market has created some losses. So far this year-- the year is not over, so who
knows how it's going to end up-- but the preliminary turn for this plan through July is a negative 8.7% net
of investment fees. Again, that compares to our 7% assumption. So when you compare those two
numbers, it's a 15.7% loss. Hopefully, some of that can be made up before the end of the year. But if not,
I wanted to show you what happens if it is a negative 8.7%.
So if it pans out to be negative 8.7 for the year, the plan is expected to achieve 100% funding one year
later and 2032. That sounds pretty good, but I'll show in the next page graphically what that also means
too.
So because the plan is mature-- and what I mean by mature it means there's fewer active participants,
more inactive participants, and those inactive participants are receiving benefits-- you've got an increase
in the benefit payments going out of the plan and less money coming into the plan to cover those.
So as an example in 2021, there was $6.1 million contributions made to the plan. Benefit payments going
out of the plan of $15.9 million. So that shortfall of $9.8 million needed to be made-- is expected to be
made up by investment income. Fortunately, 2021 was a good year, and that was made up by investment
income.
But if that wasn't the case, then if there's a loss, like it turns out there might be this year-- but again,
might-- the year is not over. If there is a loss, that's added to the plan's unfunded liability. So it's a bigger
underfunding, which means an increase in the recommended contribution.
So that's because there's more payments flowing out of the plan and less money coming into the plan.
That's why we're more reliant on the returns to cover that shortfall.
So this last slide I wanted to go over is really a graphic representation of what I just discussed. So there's
two graphs here. The top graph is the funded percentage. Again, this is the ratio of the plan's smooth
assets to liabilities and the bottom graph is a recommended contribution.
As I mentioned, it's the sum of the cost of benefits expected to be earned by active participants plus
basically mortgage payment of the plan's under funding. So there's two colors of bars here. In the top bar- well, in all cases, the green bar is assumes a 7% return each year. And then the blue bar assumes a
negative 8.7% return in 2022 and 7% thereafter.
So you can see in the top bar funded percentage, not too far off. So 2031, the green bar hits 100%
funding. The blue bar is a little short of it. It's 100% funding in 2032. So not too bad over the long term.

And for funded percentage, but you can see the big difference here is in the recommended contributions.
So because of the shortfall, the green bars you can see there's steady decline in the recommended
contribution, but a steady increase until the end of the amortization period in nine years if a negative 8.7%
return happens this year. So this bottom text box kind of shows you what they are.
So if the plan has a 7% in 2022, 100% funding reached in 2031, recommended contribution ranges from
$8.5 million in 2023 down to $2.8 million and 2032. And if we have one really bad year this year of
negative 8.7%, again, it only kicks the 100% funding down one year. That's if the recommended
contribution is paid each year. And those recommended contributions increase from $8.5 million in 2023
up to $12.7 million in 2031 and then back down to $1.3 million at the end of the amortization period. So in
2032.
So that's the last page is just our certification. That's all I had to go over. I'm happy to answer any
questions anybody might have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Londa. That was very helpful. And really appreciate, especially that
last slide there in walking us through the sensitivity analysis. I'll go ahead and open up the floor for any
questions or discussion from Directors, please. Yes, Director Cook, please.
SHIRLEY COOK: Yeah, we could ask this now we're in the mid-term financial plan. But I'm assuming,
Doug, that you have built these greater contributions into the extent they're covered in the mid-term
financial plan range. Is that correct? Are those greater contributions in the 2024-26 time frame built in
there?
DOUG MACLEOD: Essentially, we've covered it through an inflationary factor. So, yes. The question I
think before the trustees right now is what recommendation-- and I would also mention that there's five
staff trustees, as well as Director Broom and Director Caitlin on that trust for this pension plan.
We had a meeting. Not long ago, we'll have another meeting soon. And the question before us is really
what will we like to recommend to the Board as far as the budget goes for next year? We have the actual
required contribution that Ms. Londa presented of $8.5 million.
And the question is we have extra funding available now, do we use that funding, which is in our reserves
possibly to bump that up? Reduce the requirement shown here going out? Or do we continue at a steady
state, either match that annual required contribution?
And as you can see beginning in years 2032, we also have a cliff. so we're increasing, increasing and
then it drops off down to nothing. So we can also choose to smooth those required contributions over
several years, actually push out 100% funding. Because the plan is closed, that funding would eventually
be 100%. So there's nothing necessarily magical about being 100% funded in my opinion. The main thing
is to ensure there's enough funding there to pay benefits until those benefits cease being drawn.
SHIRLEY COOK: Mr. Chair, want a follow-up?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
SHIRLEY COOK: So in the same way that the negative potential return in the current year for the market
value, ripples through the coming years, can we mute this effect by paying in an extra amount this year or
next year is the question.

DOUG MACLEOD: And I'll start and let Wendy follow up on that it potentially could based on a forecast
but it all depends on what our real return on our investments are all of this assumes a 7.0% return every
year.
So any year that does not happen or it doesn't average that over a period of time higher or lower affects
the required contribution Wendy how would you explain that? Did I miss anything?
WENDY LONDA: I mean, that's very true. That's why this plan is very sensitive to investment returns. But
certainly the more money you're putting out. And now you've got more chance of earning returns on.
So instead of paying less now and increase the unfunded liability, you might pay more later. But if the
plan loses money and you could buy low now-- who knows where the market is? I'm not one to time the
market.
But certainly, putting more in now helps later. And it also helps with the potential of losing money this year
that helps pay for-- enables the plan to cover more of the benefit payments going out of the plan without
having to sell existing assets to cover those. So that's one advantage of putting more in now to help cover
the benefit payments going out of the plan, and leave the assets where they are to continue to earn
returns.
SHIRLEY COOK: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great question. Thank you, Dr. Cook. Appreciate that Thank you Ms. Londa. Thank
you, Mr. MacLeod. Any further questions or comments from Directors?
All right, well, seeing none, once again, thank you very much, Ms. Londa. That's very helpful. Thank you
for stepping us through that. And Thank you for joining us this evening and for your patience on the wait
up until this point. Thank you.
WENDY LONDA: You're welcome. Have a great rest of the night, everybody. Bye bye.
ERIK DAVIDSON: You too. Take care. All right, well go ahead and move to our next item. I think I was
saying discussion item before, but we are still in our external entity section. So next, we're going to
discuss the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 pension plan fund status. So again, Mr. Doug
MacLeod, I'm going to hand the floor off to you, as well as our representatives joining us this evening, to
go ahead and discuss the status of this pension plan fund. So Mr. MacLeod, go ahead, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Davidson. So with this plan, the Board is aware that we made some
changes to the pension structure going forward with the collective bargaining agreement. That collective
bargaining agreement went into effect January 1, 2022 and goes through 2024.
One of the big items that affected the pension with that CBA was to close the pension, the existing
Defined Benefit Pension, to new employees that are hired beginning January 1, 2023 and thereafter.
Those new employees would then participate instead in a defined contribution plan in which RTD would
contribute 9%. The employee can choose to contribute up to 5% that could be matched-- that would be
matched by RTD.
So that would be the structure of the new retirement plan for new employees going forward. And the idea
behind that was to be able to shore up the existing pension plan for our current employees, as well as to
reduce some of the risk going forward of funding that plan. So what you'll hear from Thomas Lyle, who's

the actuary from Gabriel, Roeder, Smith for the trust, is surrounding that new structure. And kind of what
we've done-- we also contributed $160 million to help shore up that pension plan.
But without further ado, I think I'll turn it over to Thomas at this point. So Thomas, please go ahead.
THOMAS LYLE: Great. Thanks, Doug. And once again my name is Thomas Lyle. Thanks for the
introduction. I work for Gabriel, Roeder, Smith, and Company who has the actuary for the ATU plan.
So for today, I'm just going to kind of briefly go over the evaluation results as of the most recent valuation
and talk about what the changes were that came out of the CBA and how they impacted the plan, and
then talk a little bit about what the future of the plan looks like and what are things that we kind of have to
watch for, and what are things we might run into down the road.
So first of all, based on the changes in the valuation and the CBA, the plan is in the best funded status it
has been in a long time. In fact, it hasn't been this well funded since pre-2008. So it was right before the
Great Recession was the last time that this plan was funded over 80%.
So part of that reason is largely driven by the changes made as part of the collective bargaining
agreement, which increased benefits and added additional funding to the plan. But also as part of the
evaluation, we take a snapshot in time. So in 2021, there were better-than-expected asset returns in that
given year. So that also helped improve the funding of the plan.
But as I mentioned before, this is just a snapshot in time as of January 1, 2022. And that means there's
no asset experience taking into account and the results that I'm showing here today. And we all know the
markets that have been down and struggling this year.
So if we were to take that into account, the picture would be a little bit less rosy. But I still think the plan is
in its best in the situation that it has been well over a decade.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thomas, sorry to interrupt. This is Doug. I'm not seeing your presentation on the
screen.
THOMAS LYLE: Oh, sorry. Let me share that. That would be very helpful, wouldn't it?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Doug. Yeah. Thank you.
THOMAS LYLE: Is that better? Can you see it now?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you.
THOMAS LYLE: OK, great. So here's that last slide. Here's my introduction, all those words I just said.
[CHUCKLES]
Here you go. So once again the major changes of the Collectively Bargained Agreement was, as Doug
mentioned, the plan closes to new entrants as of January 1 of next year. The multipliers for those Tier 2
members, or the Amendment 22 members-- this is essentially people who are hired after January 1,
2011-- were increased from 1% to 2%.
Additionally, the pay that was negotiated as a part of the CBA impacts the pension because the benefits
are based on pay. And additionally, some of the contributions to the plan are based on pay, so there's a

little bit of an offsetting balance there. But it's important to note that also impacts the plan. And then the
biggest thing is the additional $160 million in contributions to the plan. That's the biggest driver of the
improved and the funding situation.
Lastly, the employer contribution was increased to 15% of pay. I believe it was 13% before that. And kind
of simultaneously the last point I want to make is that there was an agreement signed that the benefits
were explicitly guaranteed by RTD. I do not believe that was a part of the CBA, but a separate
agreement.
So the results from the valuation as I mentioned before-- liabilities are higher as a result of the multiplier.
The additional funding hasn't drastically improved the plan. But there was one other thing that came out of
the most recent Board meeting, which was there was agreed that the lower the discount rate from 7% to
6.5%
And the discount rate is generally what we look at is what we expect the market to return, our rate of
return assumption. And we use that to discount benefit payments so we can calculate our liabilities. So by
lowering our discount rate, that generally pushes up liabilities, but it also increases the likelihood that
we're going to hit those assumptions in the future.
So to give a kind of a big picture, I don't like to spend too much time in the numbers because really what
we want to get to is the meat of the matter is that, as of the last evaluation, the plan was 56% funded. So
that's just under a half a billion dollars in liability and a little over quarter million in assets.
Fast forward one year to the January 1, 2022 valuation-- now this is before the additional $160 million
was contributed, which because it was contributed much later in the year as of the valuation date.
However, we are reflecting the additional benefit increases and a discount rate here. So we did see a little
bit of a drop in the funded situation. So the lower discount rate was kind of offset by the better-thanexpected asset returns from the prior year.
So we wanted to go ahead and show what does that impact look like for the plan with the additional
funding. So we went ahead and projected the results forward. So next year we expect the accrued
liabilities to be around $560 million and our assets to be around $460 million. So there's still bit of about
$100 million shortfall. But again, the last time this plan was 100% or 80% funded, it's been 15 years.
So what does it look like graphically to kind of-- some people like to look more into the future to kind of get
a better idea. This is a projection of the funded ratio of the plan, with the red line representing the
valuation results from the prior year. We can see that the plan was expected to hover around that 50%
funded ratio.
Whereas this year, we're seeing that big jump based on the additional contributions. And then we kind of
hovers around that mid 80% for a while. And part of what's going on here is the plan currently has several
hundred actives. I think it's 1,500, 1,600 actives in it.
And they're contributing 20% of pay in total between the employee and employer. So the additional funds
coming in to kind of keep the plan stabilized. As that goes into the future, that steady flow was is likely
going to drop off as a percentage of payroll. So you might see a little bit of a drop off in the future. But
over the next 15 years, the plan is expected to maintain a decent funded status.

And I want to touch on something Doug said as well. I mean, there's no need for a pension plan to be fully
funded at any given point. What you want to see is the plan moving in the right direction and it has good
indicators. So as far as I'm concerned, this is a really good direction to move in one year.
And as we go forward next year or the year after that, there may be more discussions about what are
things that can be done now to make this be better? My boss always says to me he's like you all need to
be 100% on the day the last payment is made. So just it's always kind of a fun thought to think of it that
way.
So that's what the plan is now. Like I said, it's better than it has been in many years. But there's some
things about coming up in the future that we may need to consider. As the plan closes, some of the asset
allocations may change. And there may be some pressure to lower discount rates, and may be more
sensitive to movement in years where there are downturns, because if you have a big loss of assets in
one year, you're paying benefits at a reduced dollar effectively.
So this is just something to keep in mind that there may be future discussions about this. And any time
liabilities are lowered or discount rates are lower you will see upward pressure on the liabilities.
So I just kind of wanted to put it together in one slide to say what are the major risk factors to the plan
moving forward. First of all, like I said, the expected rate of return, if we have downturns in the market.
Assumption changes, like again, it would lower the discount rate.
Or for example, if mortality assumptions change, if we have additional mortality improvement in the future
beyond what we already expect. Just for the record, we do have mortality improvement built into our
model, but there may be some changes in the future.
And then as I mentioned before about how some of the contributions are currently based on the active
members in the plan, which is the 15%, the 5% of pay. As the population decreases, that dollar amount
gets smaller. So if the population decreases faster than expected, it's possible that there will be additional
funding stress on the plan. That's something we'll have to see as time bears out. And I think we'll have a
pretty good idea of what that looks like within a few years.
So the last kind of thing I want to wrap up the discussion with is that there's the likelihood that there will
be additional funds needed at some point down the road. I wouldn't say that there's a strong need for any
additional funding beyond what has already been negotiated at this point, even though we are
experiencing downturns in the market. It's just that at this point there's been such a great improvement in
the plan this year. This is probably a discussion that come up maybe further down the road.
And who knows? Maybe next year we'll have significantly great asset returns, and the plan will never.
Need money again and like I mentioned before, you don't ever need to be 100% funded. In fact for a
closed pension plan, once you have over 100% funded, it's difficult to get that money out if it ever gets to
that point. You have to wait till the last day the benefits are paid.
So anyway just talking about the future discussions are going to be around what our funding policies look
like. So that's pretty much my presentation. And just to wrap it up, plans in great condition. Additional
funds might be needed in the future. And we'll continue to have those discussions with the Board. So
thank you for your time. And if you have any questions, let me know.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you, Mr. Lyle. Much appreciated. And as we've said before, I thank you,
Mr. MacLeod for the leadership and getting us to this point. It's great to see this in a healthy position for

the sake of the agency and for the sake of our employees as well for many years to come. So thank you
very much and thanks for the clarity of the presentation. I'll go ahead and open the floor to any questions
or comments from any of my director colleagues.
Right. Looking at the queue, I don't see any questions. I don't have any questions myself. This is great.
Thank you very much for highlighting the risks. Actually, I do see Director Broom has raised his hand. So
please go ahead, sir.
THOMAS LYLE: Oh, thank you. I wonder if Doug could give us an idea of when we'll reach the point
where we have an equal number of employees in a Defined Contribution versus Defined Benefit Plan?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thomas, I'm hoping you can help me out on that one.
THOMAS LYLE: Yeah, just for reference, for when the plan went to-- when they had the Amendment 22
members who were hired after 2011, I believe it was either nine or 10 years where the 50% mark was hit
somewhere in that neighborhood. So I would expect it would be similar.
DOUG MACLEOD: And if I could add, too, one of the things that we looked at when we were negotiating
the new funding structure for the retirement plans is we looked at the projections of the cash flows by
years. And essentially what happens is, as the 15% dollar amount drops down throughout the years, is
we have fewer active employees and lower contributions, to which Thomas was referring to. We may
have to put more money in because that 15% of a lower payroll equals less contributions going into the
plan.
What you see is side by side with the new DC plan as we hire new employees, those contributions start to
pick up as they start to make up a larger percentage. And so our cash flow needs are really pretty level
throughout the next 15, 20 years.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, director. And thank you for the answers on that. Any further
questions? With that, Mr. Lyle, thank you for hanging out here, waiting for the presentation. Thank you for
a good presentation. Much appreciated. Take care and have a good evening.
THOMAS LYLE: Great. Thank you for having me. It was good seeing you. Let me know if there's any
additional questions or anything I can help with. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Absolutely. Thank you. All right, so moving on, we're going to go to our next
presentation from external entities. This is regarding the internal audit update. We're joined here by Matt
Marino; I believe, maybe one or two others-- RubinBrown here. Yes, thank you.
And I just want to highlight for everybody that this has been a work in progress here. As everybody
knows, we have really two things going on. We have the performing the internal audit function that we
have brought in RubinBrown for as an outsourced entity.
And then as everybody is aware on the Board here, I know we're also working towards the development
of our long-term Audit Committee. We have some urgency to move forward and form our committee and
ensure that we have the committee charter, the revisions to our internal audit function charter, and
everything set up hopefully this year.

However, given the timeline, we thought that it would be important to bring this item to the Board several
times in the month of September since we'll probably be looking at some actions in October or possibly
November as well. So I just wanted to start with there just to highlight for everybody that we're really
hoping to get some discussion and questions from Directors who have it, recognizing that not everyone's
had the opportunity to participate in the ad hoc meetings.
And I think this is pretty critical to get some thorough but quick input from Directors here as we proceed
through this. So this is the first of several times that we'll be seeing this in the month. So with that, thanks
for letting me just expound upon that for a moment.
Mr. MacLeod, I'm going to hand off to you just to pass the baton around with RubinBrown to provide the
update on internal audits. So the floor is yours. Thank you very much.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you Chair Davidson. And thank you for that introduction. Yeah, so basically in
the Board memo, we kind of discussed the history and how we got to this point. Made a lot of progress
and in a short period of time.
And I'd like to thank the members of that Ad Hoc committee and other Board members who participated
in that process, as well as RubinBrown. They've done a lot of work really getting us to this point.
So I'd like to introduce Matt Marino who is a partner from RubinBrown who's leading the effort for this
outsourced internal audit servicing contract, as well as Dave Haronik, who is a manager with
RubinBrown. So Matt, when you're ready, please go ahead and present.
MATT MARINO: Perfect. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen and we'll go through that quick slide
deck that'll kind of walk us through the high level process, kind of what key decision points that we'll need
to reach. And hopefully, it will engage some discussion. And feel free to interrupt me if we need to.
I'll watch for hands going up. It will not ruin my presentation, I promise. Let's see. Screen. Share. Full
screen. OK. I'm hoping everybody is seeing the-- oh, that's the wrong one though. Stop sure. It'd be
helpful for us to share the right work paper.
OK, I'm hoping everybody's seeing the slide deck for the Finance and Planning Committee. Is that what
everybody's seeing?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We see that. Good to go.
MATT MARINO: OK. So I'll walk you through the process. Here's the agenda. We'll go through
introductions and I'll introduce you to our team. As Director Davidson and Doug mentioned, I'm with
RubinBrown, and we were selected as your outsourced internal audit team.
So we have several members on the team, and I'll walk you through that. We'll talk about how the
engagement team structure is going to work, roles and responsibilities on kind of working through this
process, what the scope of work was and where we're at with that scope of work, the timeline that we're
trying to achieve, Audit Committee best practices-- some of this stuff we've talked about in the past as
some prior presentations-- governance structure, including proposed Audit Committee structure, and then
Ad Hoc Committee recommended structure based on the presentations.

So I'm Matt Marino. Here's my contact information. And then Dave is also on the call as well. We're both
working in the governmental space. And both of us have worked in internal audit, as well as several other
team members who are not on it.
The idea behind having several team members is we want to make sure we provide the best level of
experience for whatever audits we might be doing. So we have a very deep bench of people, whether it
be IT, HR sort of items, and so on. And we've also contracted with Dietrich Partners, which is our
SBE/DBE participant in the contract to help us with that project as well. So there's all of our contact
information there.
So the outsourced internal audit function-- this is just a little graphic to help you understand how that's
going to work. So you'll see obviously the Board of Directors are still at the top. Now that's, not changing.
The Board of Directors are still in control. They still drive the ship. I just want to make that clear.
The General Manager and CEO is right there. The CFO, Doug, is the designated liaison to the external-near the internal audit that's outsourced. I'm the engagement partner or your internal audit lead. And then
I have my three managers below that, as well as Dietrich partners to the extent we need to.
So really nothing too big to explain there except that we do work with Doug quite a bit to make sure we're
getting to the right people internally. And then we report up to the Directors and general manager. Any
questions on that?
OK. I just want to clarify a couple of roles and responsibilities. We are here to make recommendations.
We're not here to tell you you absolutely have to do it this way. Really, you have the final decision on
things.
We're trying to identify the different options that are within range of standards and best practices. We'll
assist you all with assessing the risk universal, which we'll talk about a little bit a little later on. And then
we'll conduct audits once we complete that risk assessment and select different audits that need to be
done. And then we'll report to the Audit Committee and management to the extent we need to.
RTD Board still maintains fiduciary responsibility for the entity. You still make the ultimate decisions. You
delegate some of the monitoring and reporting to this proposed Audit Committee. The Board would be
informed by the Audit Committee, but the Board would still have final decisions on things.
So initial scope of work-- we kind of had three tasks that we've spent most of the time on these last,
almost I guess, 12 weeks at this point. Time flies when you're having fun. Establishing an internal
functioning team-- so we have the audit team on staff here at RubinBrown as well our Dietrich partners;
assist with establishment of the RTD Audit Committee.
So as I talked about, we're going to walk through that process specifically. We're thinking it'll take about
eight weeks to really build out this Audit Committee as far as people go. And then we're trying to get it
done by somewhere near October 31, 2022 so that we can possibly complete some audits during Q4 of
'22 or really early in Q1 of '23.
We'll recommend revisions to the existing internal audit function charter of which a draft was attached to
the agenda packet, as well as develop the internal function, and then provide guidance on the committee
to implement the charter. And then obviously, we provide record keeping, tracking, and reporting
throughout the process. So we're kind of the project manager, project owner on the whole process.

So here's the timeline. As you can see, we've been rather busy. I really struggled to kind of fit this on one
slide. So I hope I gave enough detail here to walk everybody through.
So we really have had several different Ad Hoc Audit Committee meetings both in July and August. So
we reviewed and updated the internal audit function charter. We looked through some updates that
needed to be done.
We will review and select Audit committee scope and structure, so we'll talk about some of that during
those meetings. We draft and review the Audit Committee charter, conduct a risk universe refresh. So,
many of you likely receive an email asking you to provide your input on the enterprise risk management
universe for RTD. So we probably did provide that as an attachment which we can touch on during the
process as well.
And then we've advertised a request for qualifications to see what sort of Audit Committee members
could we potentially have an option at selecting as an organization. It's really just kind of seeing what the
interest level would be, what sort of qualified individuals we might attract to serve on this proposed Audit
Committee.
We're here on September 13. We're here to update you all through the process, give you some draft
documents to review and consider with us eventually trying to push towards that October 25 meeting to
bring it to the Board of Directors for final approval with some meetings in between on the 22nd, 29th of
September, as well as October 11th, to really get into the nitty gritty of obtaining feedback from US
Directors on things that we would like to see included in both the internal Audit Committee charter as well
as the actual Audit Committee charter and also select final composition of the Audit Committee.
So we have a lot to do here. But we figured an update on the process is really important, because, as
Director David had mentioned, many of you have joined various Ad Hoc Committee meetings. But I don't
think all of you have been all of them, so we wanted to make sure we were providing a good update on
where we're at in the process and kind of paint a vision for where we would like to go with this process.
Any questions thus far?
So we really got down this-- started on this journey as an organization for two different reasons. RTD,
elected into the APTA Peer Review program, as well as the Office of the State Auditor, made some
recommendations on some changes to the internal audit function at RTD. And so one of the
recommendations that came out of that was forming an Audit Committee.
So when we look at the Audit Committee, historically how it's been done at RTD is the Audit Committee
more or less consists of the Directors of the organization. When you look at the best practices of audit
committees as far as the IIA or AICPA or really public companies or really any other organizations, a
number of members that's considered best is three to five members.
You should have a mix of skill sets and relevant experience that would help with the financial
management of the organization. Obviously, the member needs to be independent. Your Audit
Committee has certain responsibilities. They would oversight of initiatives. Obviously, they aren't going to
set the initiatives, but oversight.
They would help with the risk management process. They would provide oversight on the internal control
framework. They would be responsible for monitoring the audit activity of the organization from an internal
audit. They also would be responsible for monitoring the external audit.

RTD receives several different external audits every year. You receive your financial statement audit as
part of your financial statement audit. You also receive a federal funds audit you also receive audits from
various federal organizations throughout the year. And really this Audit Committee would kind of be the
primary designated place where all that information gets amalgamated and distilled into making
recommendations to you as a Board on things that they're observing, things that they might think that you,
as a Board might want to consider when you're kind of envisioning the direction of RTD as an
organization. Any questions so far?
So some additional best practices. Ideally, we'd like to reduce the amount of members on the Audit
Committee to three to five. It should typically be some unelected members of the organizations because
elections can provide some difficulty. And then one of the more key things that we should focus on is
obtaining at least one financial expert.
And a financial expert is kind of a key term that's thought of in the professional literature out there.
Typically, it's thought of as like a certified public accountant or somebody with a similar sort of skill set
that has the skills to interpret financial reporting, interpret cybersecurity, IT, GAAP, grant compliance. It's
a very wide umbrella, and that's why this financial expert is especially key.
And it's really key because the way the director's RTD works is you are all elected. And some of you may
fulfill some or more of that financial expert role. But we want to make sure that we provide that opportunity
on the off year where we have no financial expert that may get elected to the RTD Board of Directors that
we have the ability to obtain that expertise on the Audit Committee. Many of you likely could fulfill that, but
we want to make sure we ensure that that would be fulfilled in any given year.
The committee meetings would be held several times a year to make sure that we're providing updates to
the Board of Directors regularly and also monitoring what's going on at the organization. Your committee
Chairperson would report to the full Board, which would obviously be helpful to you all when you're
making decisions on how to guide the organization. And then, we also would want to look at the audit
committee's effectiveness.
And while we would set it up, we need to reevaluate it every year and say is this working for the
organization? I see I have a question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. We can go ahead and take questions live. Go ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: This is Marjorie Sloan. Is the expectation that the Audit Committee meet members
will be compensated for their time?
MATT MARINO: There are many organizations that do that. I believe at this point that is not a option that
we have selected. Right now, it's being advertised as a voluntary position.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
MATT MARINO: And then the last thing with the Audit Committee is we need to establish an Audit
Committee charter. So we already had an internal audit function charter, but we need to have this Audit
Committee charter because when I get to a couple of slides here in a couple of more slides, it'll explain to
you how this all works in concert with the internal audit.
So if you look at it here, the governance structure would kind of change to this sort of model where your
RTD Board of Directors are still there. You would still have your Finance and Planning Committee. But the

vision being that your Audit Committee would report to your Finance and Planning Committee and give
you all of the different tidbits of information from the audit activity for the year, that the Finance and
Planning Committee can consider when making your normal decisions you make as an organization.
So that's important because we're really not necessarily changing it drastically. We're just kind of drilling it
down a little bit to where you get some of the expertise that's desired and recommended for the Audit
Committee structure. Any questions on that slide so far? I'm not seeing any. I think we're good.
So we presented several different options to the Ad Hoc Committee. We went from options of three all
internal members that were existing Board of Directors members, five all internal members existing Board
of Directors members. But where we settled was five total members on the proposed Audit Committee
with two Directors and three external parties. Yes, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I had a question about emphasis for the committee. Are they going to be equally
involved with performance audits versus financial audits?
MATT MARINO: They would be primarily focused around financial audits. But if the performance audits
address one of the risks that we have identified as our internal audit, they could look at that if that makes
sense.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, thanks.
MATT MARINO: So when we look at this proposed two Directors, three external parties, some of the
benefits behind this is, as I mentioned earlier, it allows the fulfillment of the financial expert role regardless
of the current Board composition because you would recruit that person externally, regardless of what we
end up having on our Board of Directors. From outside parties outside of your core Board governance, it's
always helpful to find inputs from other people that are in the space but not directly inside your
organization.
It does limit Board influence on the audit activity of the organization, which is just a best practice. Allows
for additional involvement of another director and one external party, limits member turnover due to
upcoming elections. So one thing that is always difficult on really any governance structure is terms and
when people are up for election and how often they would roll off.
And so with providing some external parties that aren't necessarily subject to election, they would be
subject to appointment by the Board of Directors. They could remain on the Audit Committee as long as
they are approved for their term. And therefore institutional knowledge is not lost at the organization.
Drawback-- recruitment of additional members is necessary. So we will have to go out into the community
and see if we can find some additional members that want to serve on our Audit Committee. Risk of
member turnover due to elections is still present. So because there are a couple of Directors that would
still serve on the Audit Committee, that there is some risk that we would need to replace Directors if they
were not re-elected, but they were on the Audit Committee previously.
We did not go with the ex-officio position, just to try and keep the number of parties to a size of individuals
involved that we can come to decisions with a reasonable amount of efficiency. And really, that's kind of
looking at trying to make sure the audit process is monitored but not make it inefficient and overly drawn
out. Yes, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You mentioned a term. Will the members of the committee have a term?

MATT MARINO: That is part of the Audit Committee charter. Ideally, yes, they would have a term that's
decided on by the Directors when we actually adopt this Audit Committee charter.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What's the term that's in the charter?
MATT MARINO: Right now it's open because we were wanting to get feedback from people on what we
thought was not too long but what would be appropriate, if that makes sense. So right now if you look at
the draft that was attached, it's to be determined.
LYNN GUISSINGER: One way to look at this is that somebody who's not elected could still continue to
serve out their term. It doesn't sound like you've thought of that direction, but that is a possibility.
MATT MARINO: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And for the sake of pointing this out, package page 68 is where there is an insert
number, typically three or four on the term, which is open. So three or four is what's in there as a
placeholder, but it's there's an insert. Sorry, Mr. Marino, did you want to comment on the second part of
that comment?
MATT MARINO: That is excellent feedback that we could write in the charter that if a director does not
win reelection, we could evaluate whether they would be able to continue serving as basically an external
member at that point. So that's definitely a thing we'll take for feedback and discuss as a group and bring
back to you all. Thank you for that feedback.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I agree. And Director Cook, I see you have your hand up as well.
SHIRLEY COOK: Yeah, I had a follow-up question to Director Broom's. When he wondered he
distinguished between performance audits and financial audits-- and I had in my prior contact with internal
audit and two governments had been-- this wasn't strictly a focus on financial audits. It had been a
broader function.
I wonder if we can compare to other agencies, other transit agencies, that have audit committees and see
if they likewise focus mainly on financial audits versus the performance audits? Can you get that
information for us?
MATT MARINO: I can, absolutely. And I do want to make sure I-- I may have misled you when I spoke. I
did not intend to say that the focus of the Audit Committee is only on financial. It's really in the audits
that's driven by the risk assessment that we will talk about a little bit later. So there could be non-financial
things we're looking at, such as performance audits or other things. So I apologize if I gave that
impression to the Directors.
SHIRLEY COOK: Are you saying then that it would be both performance and financial audits, but you
want the key person on the committee to be a CPA so that does lend a little bit of weight to the financial
piece, correct?
MATT MARINO: Well, one of the people one of the people should be a financial expert. And it doesn't
necessarily mean that it's a financial focus, but they have a familiarity with auditing standards, what would
be best practices for auditing, whether it be performance or financial. They have experience interpreting
audit reports, interpreting the recommendations from the auditors and distilling that to management.

So because part of what they would be doing is financial, ideally finding at least one financial expert is a
best practice. But it would not need to be dominated by financial experts by [INAUDIBLE].
SHIRLEY COOK: OK. Thanks. Thanks so much, Mr. Marino.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
MATT MARINO: So as we mentioned, attached in the agenda packet was the draft Audit Committee
charter, the draft Internal Audit Committee function, and the risk universe presentation. So one thing I
would like to point out in the Internal Audit Committee function, previously Internal Audit reported to the
Directors and management.
In this new sort of setup, the internal audit function would report to the Audit Committee, and then the
Audit Committee would report to the Directors. So that's kind of important because that's the best
practices for setting up internal audit, as well as an Audit Committee. But I wanted to make sure I talk
through that.
And really, those are out there for you all to read through, provide some feedback on the next couple of
meetings coming up so that we can come up with the best answer for RTD. We did compare RTD to other
organizations. RTD is somewhat unique due to a couple of different factors.
The geographic footprint that RTD covers, it's very diverse as far as several different counties, several
different cities. We have numerous more Directors than many organizations that provide transit for only
one single city or metro area, if that makes sense. But we have looked at recommendations for other
governments, and that's kind of where we distill a lot of these recommendations from is looking at other
organizations as well as the AICPA internal, IIA, which is the Institute of Internal Auditors and other
sources to come up with recommendations. Yes, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Is there any direct linkage or reporting to the state auditor?
MATT MARINO: The state auditor would receive the financial audits from the entity. And I guess to the
extent that you would need to respond to things, your Audit Committee would likely handle that as an
organization.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
MATT MARINO: Director Cook, I believe.
SHIRLEY COOK: Yeah, sorry for the second bite at the apple. So in looking at the draft Audit Committee
charter, I didn't see the linkages you describe between the Audit Committee and the Board. And in fact, it
looked to me like every instance of Board was changed to Audit Committee. The reports went to the Audit
Committee. I didn't see reflected there that reports would then be forwarded to the Board as a whole to
see.
So I wanted to raise that as a concern. To the extent you're saying that the Board is ultimately
accountable and has authority, I don't see that reflected in the ways that the committee audit charters has
been redlined, I guess. That's the first thing.

The second thing-- So both the 2010 and 2020 audits and then the peer group emphasized as one finding
a key piece. That was that functional reporting relationship to the Board was the Board's role to supervise
that.
And what I think I hear you saying-- and I really appreciate the work that you all have put in the thought.
I've heard really good things about the meetings, and I appreciate the chair and vice chair bringing this to
the Board so as not to get ahead of us. So I really appreciate this.
But to the extent that you now have the standing committee, but the Board members who actually have
involvement are a minority. I don't see that you could even represent that there's this surrogate reporting
responsibility to the Board. I'm seeing that we have a minority involved in the decision making group.
So I think-- for what it's worth-- I think we ought to have three who are the Board members and two who
are the outside experts is what I would suggest. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Director Cook. I just want to clarify the document you are referencing is the
Internal Audit Function Charter. So all of the references to the Board were changed to the Audit
Committee. The other document, which is the Internal Audit Charter, which is a 100% new document,
hence, no red line or purple line or whatever color it shows up for you, is a new document; hence, that's
where we are showing proposing what the Audit Committee would compose to and who would be
responsible for appointing the Audit Committee and who the Audit Committee reports to. So they're kind
of two different charters. And I have the Internal Audit Function charter proposed revisions up on the
screen currently.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. I actually just like to comment on that. Thanks for allowing this to be
a bit more of a discussion here, everybody, too. This did come up. And I think it's possible that we want
to, in our next add hoc meeting, take the feedback of the reporting structure because I think, Director
Cook, I think I'm following the logic that the linkage.
There's the Internal Audit Function Charter where we have the reporting to the committee. And it's
possible one or two of those upon second review and looking at this, maybe we'd want to adjust slightly.
But then that committee is reporting into the Board. And I think what you're referring to is then seeing
explicit linkage in the Audit Committee charter and those linkages that go to the Board.
And it's possible we have a little bit of work to do there to make sure that we have that ironed out. And
perhaps, at the next Ad Hoc meeting, we can make that an agenda item and look at some of those
specific linkages.
And then also I just also wanted to highlight as we continue the discussion here-- I see some other hands
are up-- that one of the decision points that we've had and really wanted the feedback of the Board on
was whether it would be three external and two from the current Board, or the other way around, two
external and three from the current Board.
So anyway, just as we continue the discussion for folks who are interested in weighing in on that. That
was another one of the items that the Ad Hoc Committee wanted to solicit the feedback from the rest of
the Board on. So thanks for letting me expound on that. I'm going to go and just call on Director
Guissinger here since I see your hand is up as well.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, my comment may be a little from that confusion, too. I'm not seeing a title on
these that tell me that this is the internal audit report. But I've attended some of the meetings. I think you
guys are doing a great job. I think that our Ad Hoc Committee members are doing a great job as well.
But I have the same-- I was happy to hear you say the Board is still driving the ship. But when I read
through this-- and maybe I was reading the Internal Audit charter. I see the Board scratched out.
The internal audit plan, page 62 of the packet, it says at least annually the CAE must submit to executive
leadership and the Audit Committee-- and scratches out Board-- an internal audit plan for review and
approval. And then I think you said that the chair of the committee would report to the Board-- would
summarize to the Board.
If you look back at what the state auditor said and what a peer review said, the Board's, as you said,
driving the ship. And I think maybe I appreciate what Erik said that maybe some rephrasing would help.
But I think the Board needs to be driving the ship, and I think definitely worth considering having three
members of the Board on the committee as well. But certainly having the Board more involved in the plan
and the presentation of audits and things like that. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Mr. Marino, did you want to comment on that at all?
MATT MARINO: I just want to highlight in the Audit Committee charter, which is I can highlight it in the
agenda packet. But if you look at the reporting responsibilities, this is where it highlights what the Audit
Committee is responsible for reporting to the Board of Directors. So, regularly report to the Board of
Directors about committee activities, issues, and related recommendations, provide an open avenue of
communication between the internal audit and external auditors and the Board of Directors, report
annually to shareholders-- probably don't need to say, but we should say stakeholders-- and describe the
committee's composition responsibility, how they were discharged, and review any other reports and
issues that relate to Audit Committee responsibilities.
So it's really meant to be a monitoring function to ask very detailed questions so that they can bring back
any summarized reports you want to see, as well as recommended actions for the Directors to consider.
But I'll take additional feedback.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and just take down a note that lets definitely
make the point of discussing this at our September 19 Ad Hoc meeting. I don't think we need to address
this here now, but General Counsel Snyder, I think it would probably be helpful to have some discussion
around when there's key decision points and recommended actions that would come forward, especially
with the reporting structure, as it's currently outlined.
There's probably some details that we need to iron out to make sure that the right-- we're following the
right order of operations for actions coming through committee and going to Board. And I think if we
clarify that and get that right, we can probably clarify that the need for Board to have authority over the
committee.
But just because I mentioned this again, I don't know that we need to problem solve that here. But Ms.
Snyder, do you have any feedback on that or anything you'd like to add to this point of the discussion?
MS SNYDER: No, I don't think so. Thank you, Chair Davidson. I think that is something that we can take
a look at as we're reviewing and taking in the feedback from all the Directors on the two charters that are
before them.

And just as a reminder, the original charter was adopted by the Board before the Board had made the
decision to outsource the internal audit function. So that's another shift that is a pretty significant shift
that's happened since the last time the Board has seen that charter.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thanks for calling that out. Yes, big change. Thank you. Again. Thanks,
everybody for making this a discussion. I'm kind of going around here. So I'm going to-- Director Dishell, I
see that your hand is up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah just I just wanted to provide a bit more color. I know we the Audit Committee had
some pretty frank conversations about the Board and the Board's past performance. And I think it's really
important that we are willing to take a look in the mirror.
If the board was adequately managing audit, it wouldn't have taken two state audits 10 years apart to
come up with the same findings to continue to say the Board is not adequately managing funding. And so
I think that's certainly part of why I advocated for three external and two internal, which is every single
time biggest risks to the agency is the Board.
And if the Board was again-- it took until Ms. Johnson came here and this new class of folks were elected
to have audit no longer report to the CEO and functionally report to the Board. That's not on any one
person, but it is really important that we're willing as Directors to take a step back and say maybe we do
need some outside help. Maybe we do need to see that audit is really being properly addressed, because
if you look at a number of the issues we're facing today, many of them might have been mitigated with a
more robust focus on internal audit and prioritizing those items.
So I think I won't speak for Director Davidson and Director Catlin. But certainly for me that was absolutely
important was the willingness to take a step back and look at ourselves and say, what do we do well and
what don't we do well? I think the other thing, which just always reminds us [INAUDIBLE], which is we're
not carving anything in stone here.
This is one route we go. And if we don't like it and it doesn't turn out well, the Board can amend it, frankly
probably every meeting. Probably not a good idea, but the Board has that flexibility.
So I think while preserving the Board's right the Board's power over an audit is really important-- and that
it is a core Board function, it's also, I think, equally important to recognize the Board may have failed to
perform in the past at the level that this agency needs.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Thank you for those comments, Director Dishell. I think just if I could just react,
this is a step in the Board managing audit. And we're looking for our ways to do that. So yeah, thank you
for commenting on that.
And love the point about none of this being carved in stone. I think this came up at one of our previous Ad
Hoc meetings that it would be shocking if we're not re-evaluating a couple of things in a couple of years,
given how much of a change this is that we'll need to make some-- be flexible once we learn from this
process.
Given that we have some director's hands up, I'm just going to continue to call on them. And then, Mr.
Marino, I know we were still going through the presentation and discussion. So I'll make sure to come
back to you for anything that we didn't touch upon already. But Director Tisdale, go ahead, please.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate the opportunity. And I do want to weigh in with some
of the Directors on the specific question that you have posed, which is the real focus here is, do we want
two Directors and three external members of the Audit Committee, or do we want the reverse of that?
I submit that statutorily the obligation rests with us. And so in that instance, I think it is important that we
have three Directors and two external members of that committee. I believe that to the extent any criticism
has been made about what we have done in the past, that is addressed, A, by establishing the committee
in the first instance; and B, by having two external members of that committee.
But as the obligation rests with us, statutorily then I think we would be loathe to reject that directive from
the General Assembly. So I think we should do that. Just because something is broken doesn't mean that
you throw out the system. It means that you fix it. And this is, I think, the appropriate fix.
So as to that central question, I would suggest that I-- and I believe a large number of Directors would be
happier if we had three Directors and two external members of the committee. Thank you, Mr Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you for joining us, Director Tisdale. And thank you for the comments on
that. Yeah, that's a great point, and I'm glad that we're getting the feedback here. So thank you for raising
that.
And I'm wondering if, Mr. Marino, if you wanted to comment at all on that feedback? I know that was one
of the key pieces we were hoping to learn from Board members about preference. Is there anything you
want to comment on, given the feedback there?
MATT MARINO: We just appreciate the feedback. And that was the whole intention behind just bringing
this in front of you all because we understand this is a change and has gotten some attention from
various parties. We want to make sure we derive the right committee structure for RTD.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you very much. Audit Ad Hoc Committee chair and Director Caitlin, I
see your hand up help as well.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. First of all, Director Tisdale, thank you for acknowledging that
just the very formation of our ad hoc committee and outsourcing is a great step in the right direction to
addressing those previous state audits. So thank you for acknowledging that.
And I'm one that wants to look forward and maybe not flog ourselves too much over the past. But I really
appreciate Directors Cook and Guissinger mentioning a more explicit link to the Board just so that we're
really clear about the Board's authority. I very much appreciate that. So looks like we have quite a bit to
discuss at our next Add Hoc committee meeting, but this feedback has been really helpful. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. And I see Director Williams as well. Thanks for joining
us. And please go ahead.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: I just want to say here here. I'm in favor of 3 and 2 and support most of what has
been said.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Williams. And would you mind clarifying there are three Directors?
You're echoing the three Directors and the two external. OK, thank you.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: Yes, sir, I am.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Take some notes on our-- Thank you. OK, great. Seeing no more hands, currently. Mr
Marino, please take the floor back.
MATT MARINO: I have my notes just so I make sure I get everything correct. So we have it all down for
the 19th. We're going to look at the three Director, two external, also contemplate if a Director were to be
not win re-election, could they continue serving as the external member? And we would just fulfill it with
that. A new internal, we'll work on that as well.
So that was one of the other things that was brought up. I want to make sure I don't lose track of. We
rightsize this for the entire-- and we're trying to do.
I think at this point I want to refresh and just go over the risk universe very quickly just because we did
ask for input from the Directors. So I'm going to go ahead and share that and I'm going to have Dave
chime in as well.
So we had done a ERM enterprise assessment back in-- what was that, Dave? Last year. One of the
things that we did not do at the time is we did not receive input from the Directors. A decision was made
at the time.
So we thought since we're embarking on this new internal audit function, and we're trying to decide what
is the risk that the entity needs to address and how we might address that through our internal audit
process, we thought what better time than to receive some additional input from the Directors. And so we
did send out surveys earlier in August.
I believe we received roughly an 80% response rate, which is phenomenal. US Directors should be
applauded for your high response rate. And we'll kind of walk you through the highlights of that. Dave, did
you want to take over as far as driving and I'll provide commentary from there?
DAVE: Sure.
MATT MARINO: I'll flip for you.
DAVE: Great. Thank you. Yes. So as Matt mentioned, we had a very high response rate, which we
appreciate. Shows everyone is engaged and really cares about the risks.
We pretty much ask the same questions that were posed last fall of senior management and
management. The only thing that we excluded was, by design, was the management preparedness
question for each of those risks because you're obviously not in the front lines and know how the
company is responding on a daily basis with the controls that are in place. So hopefully, that resulted in a
little bit quicker getting through the survey.
If we move on to the next slide, the biggest thing here is the risk universe, which did not change. We
pretty much presented the same risk universe. But the bolded items here were the ones that came out of
discussions with senior management and management at the time. And obviously, as everybody knows,
the factors that have taken place within the world, in the economy, in Denver at large, have changed
since then.
So there could be additional risks that will show up on this screen here in the future. But we did have a
free form section at the end for people to provide their input to anything that could potentially be useful to
the organization when developing the audit plan for the year.

The next slide really just kind of shows the top five risks. And the biggest thing here if you may recall the
highest risk after last falls risk assessment was the Board structure and performance being the number
one, which was very high actually with the overall risk score, I think, in the 10 or 11 range.
And you'll see in a later slide that we did put weighting to this. So the people who are closest to the risks
being management and senior management had a little bit higher rating. The Board input as well was
taken into consideration. So the 16%-- or I guess the 80% response rate didn't, I'd say, materially
changed the risk scores overall. But as you might note, the Board structure and performance did move to
number two. And the large service area, rightly so, probably didn't move up into the number one spot from
a overall risk with taking into account the new survey results.
The next one is just, I guess, a fancy slide that we provide with the risk results. And this one is-- I
apologize for the busyness of the slide, but we felt like this was an adequate way to present the numbers
on the top level are the original scores. And then the Board of Directors score below that.
And then as I, for an example, I mentioned before, the overall risk performance was for the Board
structure was in the tens and now it's 8.88 based on all that. And then as I noted before, the Board of
Directors had a weighting of 20% on those numbers as noted down in the bottom with management-well, senior leadership at 50% and then management at 30%.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dave, do you want to take questions now or do you want to wait till the end?
DAVE: Oh, yeah. Feel free to-- Director Caitlin, if you'd like to respond, you're first with your hand up.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Thank you, Dave. I was just curious how you came up with a 20% weighting factor for
the Board? I mean, what was the rationale for that?
DAVE: This is just consistent with every other organization that we do the risk assessment for. And this is
primarily due to the people that are closest to the risks, not saying that you're not close to the risks, but
you may be getting chunks of information. You'll be getting information that is maybe provided to you by
what maybe senior leadership thinks is relevant for you. Not saying that you're not up-to-date on the news
and outside factors, but just really just consistent with every other organization that we do ERMs for.
PEGGY CAITLIN: OK. I appreciate that. I just wanted to point out that very soon after we get this Audit
Committee convened, we will be doing another risk universe, and it will be updated once again. And I
think we can look forward to that. So just wanted to remind Board members of that.
DAVE: And that's a very good point in the fact that, again, the risks have changed since the last time we
did the risk. And so we're basically combining what the Board knows now to from what, I guess, what was
known at the time back last fall. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger. Yeah, thanks. And did RubinBrown define the terms here that people
considered-- the Board structure and performance having elected Board members all with competing
priorities and varying levels of transit experience may impede RTD's achievement of strategic goals. Is
that your writing?
DAVE: Yes. That was what we put together last fall.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I got to say it sort of leads to a conclusion, varying levels of experience,
competing priorities. I'm concerned about the 20% weighting as well. If you look here at the ratings, the
Board of Directors rated that the lowest risk and the staff rated that as the highest risk.
And what that says to me is we have communication work to be done, but not necessarily that really is
the highest risk. And I just wonder if the phrasing there could have led to sort of the outcome?
DAVE: Duly noted. I believe, yes, I think this probably was a little bit more-- after our discussions with
management, senior management. So we drafted it based on I guess the means at the time. So yes, it
may not have been taken the most objective, I guess, approach to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And with the 20%, you said that's what y'all use. Is there a standard in the industry?
I mean, are there best practices? Do they say you discount the Board's concerns?
I'm looking at this and I'm thinking, ability to retain and to get and retain workforce is a huge threat. So I
guess what I'll say is I think it's good we're doing another risk assessment. And maybe checking how we
phrase it would be a good thing to do.
DAVE: Yeah, yeah. And for example, the risk of the workforce in my mind would have been probably one
of the largest ones. And after the survey results, it was pretty surprising that maybe it wasn't higher at the
time. But yes, we will definitely revisit those and take a closer look to the phrasing of all the risk factors.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much.
DAVE: I think the only other thing to point out to this, I guess, is the last couple of slides is that at your
leisure, you can take a look at any of the additional risks that were provided ad hoc with the management
group and senior management group obviously again from last fall and the Board of Directors more
recently.
MATT MARINO: Dave, it was basically a free form field where they could just describe risk in their own
terms, not confined by the predefined descriptions that were in the survey, correct?
DAVE: Correct. So in the perfect world, the conversations would have been had probably taken place
ahead of time. And those factors would have gone into the risky universe slide that you saw earlier and
then made their way into the survey to be scored. So these are kind of after the fact, but well appreciated.
MATT MARINO: OK. I think that's it as far as we wanted to present the updated risk universe to you all.
As we have mentioned, we will reassess this prior to doing any audits and once the Audit Committee is
eventually selected and all that sort of stuff. But we wanted to continue updating you all on the process
and all of the work. It sounds like we have plenty of items to discuss on our upcoming Ad Hoc Committee
meeting. And I'll turn it over to Director. Davidson for an additional wrap up or close out.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you very much. Thanks for the presentation. Thanks for walking through
this. And just on the risk universe side, first of all, thanks to my fellow Directors here for the responses
and for jumping in on that in the time frame that we had.
And I think Director Guissinger, great points. I think it's going to be great to have the Audit Committee
formed and starting to work on this so we can really evaluate these risks and take a look at them.

I think even to me, for example, there are some that kind of have an interesting intersection. The large
service area combined with the dependence on sales and use tax, for example.
Director Guissinger, I think you bring up a good point. I mean, even looking at the discrepancy of how the
Board performance and structure risk is-- I think you put it well that there's perhaps a communication
issue in there between leadership and Board that needs to be worked on. So lots to discover and looking
forward to getting our committee put together.
Just while I have the floor, I also just wanted to say thank you very much to our Board staff. We had this
August off of Board meetings. But the Ad Hoc committee did continue. So appreciate that the staff time
that went into ensuring that we would continue to move forward. Thank you for supporting those
meetings.
So wit that, I was going to open up for any other comments from RubinBrown or Directors. And Matt, I see
your hand is up, so go ahead, sir.
MATT MARINO: One thing I omitted to update you all on is where we're at with as far as receiving RFQs,
or Request For Qualifications, from potential Audit Committee members. We've received two to date, so
we need some more.
So to the extent you know people that would be great candidates for our potential Audit Committee,
please encourage them to submit their RFQs on the RTD website so that we can look at all of our
qualified candidates and form the best Audit Committee possible.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for touching on that. I appreciate that. And certainly to fellow Directors,
please reach out to your networks. I know I've been reaching out to some folks and struggling to get
volunteers interested in the topic. But I think it is going to be a really great and rewarding position to
tackle given our needs right now. So hopefully, others will see it that way. And thanks for touching on that.
Any other comments from RubinBrown? Any other questions from Directors? Any comments from staff?
Mr. MacLeod, anything that you wanted to add? Anything at all before we wrap up this item?
All right. Well, thank you very much, everybody. I really appreciate it. Dave and Matt, thanks for joining us
here. And I'll just, again, add to Directors if you think of other items for feedback, please feel free to
submit those in email. Please feel free to call any of the committee members. As we mentioned, we're
really interested in that feedback so that we can get everybody's input before we try to finalize this
committee structure in October. So, thank you.
All right, that was a, I know, a lengthy item, but thank you very much. And thank you to all of our external
presenters who spoke this evening for their time and for all of the valuable information. So thanks so
much.
We are going to move straight into our recommended actions, of which we have several. If we do go
along, maybe we'll look at a break at some point. But I think we're going to move right along right now.
We're in our recommended actions. And the first recommended action is going to be for our accountbased ticketing contract extension and fixed fees. This is for the Board of Directors to authorize the
General Manager and CEO or her designee to extend the contract with Masabi by one year and
implement a fixed monthly fee. So first of all, go ahead and see do I have a motion?

LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
TREASURER WHITMORE: Second.
SPEAKER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the mover as Director Guissinger. And I heard the second as Treasurer
Whitmore. Great. So Mr. MacLeod, I'm just going to hand off to you to guide the discussion here. I know
that we're also joined by Ms. Tanya Anderson, senior product manager. So please go ahead and take the
floor to present the item. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. Thank you. Just a quick item I wanted to mention is General Manager Johnson
has been providing periodic updates about the account-based ticketing implementation that's underway.
We do intend to provide another update shortly.
General Manager Johnson has asked us to put together an update for her to consider to pass on to the
Board just to keep you informed about how that's going. So I would anticipate that going out within the
next week.
As you mentioned, Chair Davidson, Tanya Anderson. And I'd like to thank Tanya for all her work. It's
really been a big effort to migrate to this account-based ticketing. I think it's going to be well received by
our customers and work towards our strategic priorities of customer excellence and community value.
But Tanya is going to give us a quick summary of this Board item that you're considering tonight. So
Tanya, please go ahead. Tanya, you're muted.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Anderson, you're on mute.
TANYA ANDERSON: OK. There we go. Let's try it. Take two. Good evening, I'm Tanya Anderson,
Manager of Electronic Fare Operations. And I'm here to present on the recommended action to extend
the Masabi contract by one year and to implement a fixed monthly fee.
So Masabi began providing digital fare collection services to RTD in 2017. And through previous Board
actions, voter approvals, Masabi is the vendor that supplies our mobile ticketing app and account-based
ticketing services, as well as installing new bus and rail validators.
Currently, Masabi charges RTD commission for each transaction. And over the years, as we've continued
to build out the Masabi platform, this commission-based model has become very complicated not only for
Masabi, but to calculate, but for RTD staff to audit on a monthly basis. And account-based ticketing has
increased that complexity.
The fixed fee arrangement would combine the Commission and the licensing fees into a fixed monthly
payment. And that includes the Mobile Ticketing Commission, the account-based ticketing commission
fees.
There's a portal that's used by our RTD sales outlets and our third parties. Any sales that are processed
through that portal, there's a commission for that as well. In addition to the commission, the validators
have software that resides on them. That requires a licensing fee, along with the inspection app that our
Fare Enforcement officers use. And all of that those commission and licensing fees would be rolled into a
fixed monthly payment.

The credit card processing fees, however, are not included in this monthly payment-- fixed monthly
payment. Instead, these fees will be calculated monthly and RTD will pay a reduced rate. These credit
card processing fees, again, I just want to reiterate that it's not considered revenue for Masabi. It's merely
a pass through.
Since Masabi is processing the payments for us, we pass through Masabi, and then they eventually pay
the payment processors for these credit card fees. Again, approval of this recommended action will result
in a one-year extension of the Masabi contract, giving us an opportunity to realize the benefits of accountbased ticketing, which will be implemented at the end of this year and includes a not-to-exceed
$2,800,000 for the one-year extension. Funding is included in the amended budget. And that concludes
my presentation. Happy to answer any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Anderson. And thank you for the work on this and the
simplification of the contract. That's an exciting project. And completely understand the simplification. So,
thank you. Any questions or comments from Directors?
OK. Seeing none, I will go ahead and call for the vote here. Just taking a look at mt attendees. All right,
so I see everybody here, so I can go ahead and do this with-- are there any no-votes on this action?
Great. Seeing none, that motion will pass with seven aye-votes and zero no-votes. Ms. Anderson, thank
you very much for the hard work on this really truly. Great change for our customers. And I know this is
complicated and a complicated process to, as you had mentioned earlier, ripped the Band-Aid off with
have changing systems over. So thanks for taking that on.
TANYA ANDERSON: My pleasure. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, excellent. Well, thank you very much, everyone. We're going to move into our
second recommended action of the evening. This is with regards to our 2023 to 2028 mid-term financial
plan. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2023-2028 mid-term financial plan. Do I have a
motion?
TREASURER WHITMORE: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second, Dishell.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I have the mover as Treasurer Whitmore, the second as Director Dishell.
I'm going to go ahead and ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer who I know is joined this
evening by Mr. Todd Nikkel, our Senior Manager of budget, to present the item to the committee.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And we do have a presentation that we will walk through that was
included in your packet. I just want to make a few comments. Within that presentation, we do have a
couple of replacement slides.
The presentation that we will show this evening as those revised numbers. And what we've changed is
towards the end of the presentation, we have base and FasTracks broken out separately. That was
based on a cash basis initially with what was posted.

However, the way we really look at it is how we record it on an expense basis, because some of those
expenses are shared by-- they're paid for by the base system, but shared by-- they're incurred by the
FasTracks system. So the original slides do not reflect that. The slide you'll see tonight will reflect that.
And we will replace the file after this evening's meeting.
OK. Good. And I think that was all I wanted to mention. And we'll just jump right in to the presentation. But
I'd also like to mention as I'm calling this up that we adopted-- last year, we adopted the same format
which was really at a summary level in terms of presenting the mid-term financial plan to the Finance and
Planning Committee, as well as to the Board.
The intent of that was to present at a more easily understandable, hopefully, level than providing lots of
spreadsheets and difficult-to-read tables of numbers. We have gotten a few comments and a lot of
questions about the details supporting this. So what I would offer is while we're showing this in a
summary level, myself, Todd Nikkel, anybody in the Finance department is available to answer more
detailed questions. Our intent would be to get this out earlier than this, how we've gotten it out this time
and asking for approval.
But between now and the Board meeting followed this month, we'd be happy to answer any detail
questions, provide any additional detail that you might like to see. Just please let us know.
So without further ado, the midterm financial plan, just a quick summary, is a six-year forecast. It is a
forecast that we use as part of our strategic financial planning. What it helps us to do is to evaluate all the
projects that are in the pipeline, asset management needs, projections regarding the System Optimization
Plan, et cetera.
So we can look out several years all in one place and decide how we're going to allocate our resources,
not just financial resources, but human resources-- overall aligning that with our strategic plan and our
strategic priorities.
We use the Mid-Term Financial Plan, or MTFP, to establish a baseline for the budget. So what you'll see
later in the slides is we have the current budget that's been approved and appropriated by the Board for
2022. Then we show the next six years.
And I'd just like to point out this is as a reminder that even though this is an action item, it's not an
appropriation. It's simply for planning purposes. So this is to inform the Board of the outlook going forward
based on current information at this time.
Todd, we'll go over a couple of slides that make some comparisons between the last Mid-Term Financial
Plan that was approved by the Board in October of 2021 versus this one. Obviously, things change
between years. This plan will change as well. If we were to re-forecast it two or three months from now, it
may change dramatically or may not.
One of the things we discussed earlier if there's additional information. Particularly since we're so reliant
on sales and use taxes, we'll stay in contact with the Leeds School of Business. If they see anything
dramatic, we would come back to the Board certainly and inform you of any concerns there.
So what you're going to see are some of the assumptions that we put into this six-year forecast. And
Todd will talk directly to these numbers in later slides. But regarding fare revenue, fare revenue right now
approximately makes up about 10% of our operating expenses, 8% to 10%. It's much lower.

So our fare recovery ratio that percentage used to be closer to 15% to 20% as our ridership is dropped.
Still have a lot of fixed expenses. So our expenses have stayed relatively steady, but our fare revenue
has dropped. And that's been replaced by other sources of income-- higher sales and use taxes as well
as some additional federal funding.
Sales and use taxes are slightly higher. That was discussed earlier in the presentation. What wasn't
mentioned is the MTFP period, that Medium Term Period that the CU Leeds folks talked about.
This new forecast since the March forecast actually adds $91.4 million to those six years. So we had
talked to the Board previously before getting this forecast that our assumption was that based on the
information that we had gotten from other forecasts that CU Leeds have done for other areas.
And all the economic challenges that are going on with inflation possibly lower spending, et cetera, that
we might anticipate seeing those sales and these tax forecasts decreasing. They actually went up. If you
remember from that slide, what happens is it goes up in the short term during the RFP period, then it
reverts to the mean that we showed last time.
So we get a blip and that's really evidenced by our sales and use tax results, which have been 6.9%
better than our budget or better than the March forecast. We're actually $62 million ahead of where we
were in July of last year. So good increases there.
COVID relief funding, you'll see we've included that. We're drawing that down as quickly as possible so
that we can get some investment returns on that. Sustainable service levels are included within the
operating expense line item in alignment with our system optimization plan.
So what we've done is when we've developed these forecasts, we've worked in tandem with Reimagine
process and WSP who did the long-term forecasts. So we're in alignment on what those numbers are
forecasted to be based on known assumptions at this time.
Asset maintenance is now fully funded again this year, so we're very happy about that. We've made it a
point and a strategic priority to take care of what we have and catch up on anything that we've not funded
in previous years or even delayed. One of our big challenges is not the funding part, it's the people power
or non-financial resource part in accomplishing those tasks.
And then I think the critical thing from a financial fiduciary sustainability standpoint is maintaining our fund
balances in case there are any headwinds or unanticipated needs that we have coming up. And what
you'll see in those numbers is we are maintaining our fund balances that are at or above the Boardrequired fiscal policy amounts.
Where we've been going over the last two years under new leadership of General Manager Johnson, too,
is obviously you know that adopting a new strategic plan. One of our big priorities is to align our funding
with those strategic priorities. We're making good progress as those strategic priorities and directions are
identified. And so we will continue to align that funding and the funding request that we bring to the Board
with those strategic directions.
Again, I met I mentioned that Reimagine RTD plays a big part in this. All these efforts are aligned in terms
of our forecast, presentation, and in the efforts going forward. Further study in equity analysis will have an
impact. We're not sure what that is yet.

What Todd will show you in the numbers is initial indications from what the Study and Equity Analysis
team has been discussing with Four Nines, our contractor, is really surrounded-- regarding fare rates is
really surrounded around the feedback we've gotten from surveys from our customers where the
perception has been that RTD's fares are too high.
So we've made some assumptions that, on a conservative basis, to be as conservative as possible. And
those fares and not over inflate them and be too optimistic.
TABOR limits, we've included a provision for that still on the base system side. We've had several
discussions about the impact that the TABOR revenue limitation gross will have on the basis them
beginning in 2025. The Ad Hoc Committee will meet again at the early part of next year after Board
elections and take up that effort again.
And then economic volatility-- we've made some assumptions just like CU did based on inflation rates.
Some of the other things that we're seeing in terms of human resources' ability to get things done. And
this is a big effort when we look at all the projects and all that asset management plan items that are out
there in terms of really evaluating not just the financial resources, but when can we actually get things
done?
We have to go through a procurement process. We have to find contractors, have to evaluate it at the
right price. And then there's often internal resources, significant internal resource dedication to these
projects. And there's many components oftentimes.
There might be a Capital Programs component and an IT component to a project. So there's going to be
a lot more scrutiny of those projects and the timing of those, given our people power problem as to when
those can occur. So it's not just a funding issue necessarily.
So with that, I will turn it over to our Senior Manager of budget, Todd Nikkel, to go through some
numbers. So Todd, please go ahead.
TODD NIKKEL: All right, thank you, Doug. So these next two slides are just visually showing you that
from last year's MTFP in October of 2021 to this year in September that our revenues are going up
slightly. So not real significant. But compared to last year, they're going up.
And in the next slide, it shows the same thing for our expenditures. That our expenditures are going up.
And you see some peaks and valleys. And we can certainly talk about that if you have any questions
about that. But our expenses have gone up since last year, as I'm sure that's no surprise to anybody
paying attention to our economy right now.
So let's move on to the next slide. And here is just a summary level of our base system revenues and
expenditures. So I want to just go down each line and just point out a few things about each one. So first
of all, our fares. And our fares have gone down significantly.
Our planning department, along with our consultant, Four Nines, reforecasted our ridership, which is
recovering but not at the rate that we were expecting when we presented this to you last year. This also
takes into account, as Doug mentioned, the Fare Study and Equity Analysis.
And with that, we're assuming that in 2025 our fares will go down an average of 20%. So that significantly
reduced our fares. And this also accounts for about a 2% growth in ridership each year. So it's had quite
an impact on our ability to plan in this Mid-Term Financial Plan period.

Next, sales and use taxes-- as you saw earlier this evening, it was pretty positive news that it's still
growing and not going down. But these numbers will not match what CU shared tonight because of what
Doug mentioned, the TABOR limitations. We did assume at the end of '24 that the base system revenue-sales and use tax revenue would be subject to TABOR.
So within Reimagine, WSP consultants did an analysis, went back probably about 15 years and came up
with-- so RTD, based on TABOR is limited to property tax increases. And that was 1.4%. So that
limitation, after '24, our sales and use taxes on the basis of girl only by 1.4%. Regardless of what they
actually do, we would have to give that money back.
Grant revenue-- you can see it going up from '22 to '23. And that is due to the infrastructure bill that was
passed by Congress recently. And with that the majority of our grant revenue is preventive maintenance
grants. And in that bill, we will be appropriate an additional $30 million a year. So that's where you see
that going up.
You see the COVID relief grants. And you probably remember hearing Doug talked about we're drawing
that down as we can. And we'll probably draw a majority of it down this year. So you may wonder why are
we accounting for it in '23 and '24.
And that is because we start with the beginning balance of what funds we have left to start this forecast.
And those were not incorporated into that beginning balance. So we wanted to bring those in to account
for that revenue. So that's our revenues. You see them going up in the next two years, '23 and '24, and
then going down in '25 due to those relief grants for COVID sunsetting.
Getting to the operating expense, that is our place where we can actually make changes and impact the
bottom line here. So we have projected inflation. We've projected wage rate increases and salary
increases, and, as best as we can, increases in our various expense categories.
So you see it going down slightly from '22 to '23. That's because we're trying to-- we have large favorable
variances. We don't spend all that we budget. And we're trying to bring that down a little bit so that we can
fund other things that we need to do.
Next line is debt service, and you see that going down fairly rapidly for the base system. And that is due
to the retirement of bonds. And in the future, all we will have left is COP financing that we have to pay
down.
And then the last line until expenditures is our capital expenditures and state of good repair. As Doug
mentioned, we are fully funding our asset management plan. And then we have a few other items in here
that are not state of good repair, but our capital.
So you see our net cash flow for the base system. And again, it goes up and down. And the one thing I
want to point out that when you see negatives, you're looking at one year by itself. And the way we build
the model is we take what our fund balance was at the beginning of that period, and then we will end up
using some of that fund balance to fund some of these deficits in any given year.
So as I'll demonstrate and show you at the end of this presentation, that we are in the positive in our net
cash flow. So next slide, Doug.
All right so this is the same format just on our FasTracks side of the business. And you can see the same
impact on our fairs sales and use tax for FasTracks is not impacted by TABOR. So that should match

what the midterm or the baseline scenario that CU has provided for us. The big thing here that you'll see
is debt service. And that is a significant expense on the FasTracks side.
And then the next slide is just a consolidated look. And then we've added at the very bottom what our
contribution or our use of our reserves are and then what that balance in total of those reserves are. So
you can see we have from '23 to '28, it goes anywhere from a little over $500 million to almost $650
million in reserves.
And one thing I wanted to point out that I believe is important about this Mid-Term Plan is that-- in a
couple of items I'll point out on the capital expenditures is in '25, you see a large significant increase in
our capital expenditures. That is the maintenance facility, a new maintenance facility.
And then you also see a big spike in '28, where we have $191 million. And that's a fairly significant
amount of bus purchases that we have in our asset management plan in 2028. And for all of these items,
we are paying cash. We're not incurring any debt to accomplish any of these things. And to us in the
Finance department, that is a big deal and something that we feel is important to point out.
So if we go on to the final slide, I wanted to break out that reserve number that you see on the bottom of
the previous slide that showed our reserve balance. This breaks it out so you can see each year just the
relative amount of our total reserves is in each reserve. The bottom line is our Board-appropriated fund
which we're not contributing any money to.
The light-- the next one up is our light, our yellow. And that's our unrestricted operating reserve which our
fiscal policy states that we need to have at least three months operating in that fund and we do.
The next, the gray one, is our capital replacement fund. And whatever we don't use, we take an average
over a 30-year period that's in our asset management plan. Whatever that average dollar amount we
don't use in any given year, we are putting into this capital replacement fund.
So that in those years, like 2028, we have $113 million in bus purchases that we can cash fund that. We
don't have to incur debt to do that. So you see that capital replacement fund going up. And then in '28, we
have to use a little bit of it. But we have a fund balance dedicated towards replacing our assets that we
can draw against when we have big spikes.
And then the blue section of the bar chart is our unrestricted year end fund balance. So you see it pretty
large in the first two years and that's because we're getting those COVID funds. And then it starts going
down. That's because those were one-time funds. We're not getting those anymore.
And in 2028, you see it fairly small. And that's the number we want to see as positive to have a balanced
Mid-Term Financial Plan. And it's about $35 million, so that still allows us to fund a few things that come
up along the way that we didn't consider in this plan, and also just a little bit of wiggle room if some of our
revenues don't materialize like we're planning for.
So that's the end of the presentation. And Doug and I can answer any questions that anybody has.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Thanks for the presentation, Mr. Nikkel and
Mr. MacLeod. We'll go to questions and discussion here. Director Broom, please.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had a question about fare revenue. I think you mentioned that fares
make up between 8% and 10% of operating costs. I'm curious as to how much it costs us to actually
collect those fairs?
In other words, when you add in all these studies and the IT systems and everything else, does that eat
up half of that fare revenue that we get? Because what I think we need to do is think about talking with
the governor's office, CDOT, and DRCOG about finding some other revenue to make up for the fare
revenues and then offering free service as an option that the Board should be looking at.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great question. Thank you, Director Broom. And we have looked at that. In fact, it's
one of our strategic metrics to measure the cost of collecting fares. One of the things that we're trying to
settle on is how to measure that and what to include.
As you can imagine, there's a whole host of costs that would go into that. There's things like software,
hardware, personnel, obviously. And so what we're trying to figure out what would be a meaningful
measurement and how to measure that.
My suspicion is that it will be a significant amount of the fare recovery. But we have to keep in mind that
one thing that's very important as a transit agencies to be able to provide equitable and accessible fare
purchasing options. There's been discussions about how can we get rid of cash?
Well, it's probably not an option. It's a very expensive thing to collect. We have to have folks collect the
money, deliver it to the bank, separate out bills, pull out the slugs and other foreign coins. So it's a very
expensive proposition.
But there's also a cost that's difficult to measure, and that's convenience to our customers as well as
equity concerns, having the ability to purchase fares throughout the region. So we're trying to really
narrow that down to a good way to measure that and evaluate it while taking into consideration all the
external factors other than just the costs. So thank you for that question.
BOB BROOM: Will there be some information coming out to the Board?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, definitely. It'll be part of the-- with the performance committee, we'll have
discussions about the actual metrics. And that will be one of those that rolls up into the overall metrics.
And I think General Manager Johnson would like to add to that.
GM JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr MacLeod and thank you very much, Director Broom, for
the question. In an effort to manage expectations, as we look at the implementation of the strategic plan,
to the point that Mr. MacLeod raised, as we discern the path forward and look at the second wave relative
to the improvements we are making holistically, discerning what might be operable in relationship to
calculating the return on investment that Mr. MacLeod referenced.
So I just wanted to ensure that the Board was left with an understanding it's not as if you're going to
receive that at the performance committee tomorrow as we go through this process. This is evolutionary
in that regard as we look at the metrics, and just having had an internal meeting where we're doing a gut
check relative to what might be meaningful as we look at being good stewards of taxpayer dollars. I
wanted to ensure that there was an understanding that is in the works, and that would be something seen
within the next couple of meetings. So, thank you very much for the opportunity to expound.

BOB BROOM: Well, thank you. I guess we're saying that there's not as much debt out there, that we
haven't pledged revenues that would keep us from doing something like this. When the state looks at
ways of cutting greenhouse gases, this may be one of the most cost effective ways for them to do it is to
pay RTD to haul people around free, which would just supposedly drastically increase ridership and
reduce greenhouse gases. This is something we need to take a good, long, hard look at, because,
obviously, that makes for a big change.
The other thing is are there other major or semi-major transit systems in the country that are going to a
no-fare model. And what is their experience been? I'd like to know the answer to that question with
traveling to 50 states. But anyway, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Thank you for the comment and the question and
response there. Dr. Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. And I thank Director Broom for those questions, too. I think it's-- obviously,
there are other considerations with free fares, but it's worth keeping in mind and looking at. You're saying
a 20% decrease in average fares, is that from where they are now?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. So the basic assumption is local fare currently is $3. And please don't put
any salt in terms of that's what the Fare Study and Equity Analysis Committee will be recommending. But
just based on the conversations about lowering fares will be decided in order to be as conservative as
possible on the fiscal side was to assume a $2.50 decrease, which is approximately a 20% decrease in
those fares. That's how we got there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. Thanks. I think that seems like a good assumption. There are several
things in here, Doug. And you and I talked about some of them today-- operating expense increase of
$254 million over the six-year period for increased service levels and ridership forecast to grow annually
at 1.8%. Service level increases are based on anticipated demand.
All of those are assuming a full completion of the service return that's anticipated in the SOP, I guess, in
the five years, is that right?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. One thing we-- I appreciate you answering my questions today. And Ms.
Johnson did some too. But one thing I thought about afterwards is that I've attended the Reimagine RTD
Advisory Committee and Technical Working group. I listened to part of both of those recently.
And a big part of the conversation was partnerships. And the number that we were putting out there was
that we would be budgeting 1% to 2% of our annual budget to support those partnerships. And I'm a big
fan of that process.
I think Ms. Johnson has heard me say I think that our future financially and workforce and everything else
is partially could be helped by those partnerships. Have you put a number into this Mid-Term Financial
Plan?
DOUG MACLEOD: Not explicitly for that purpose. However, the assumption is that it is embedded within
our cost and it would be absorbed. Those levels of costs, especially when we're talking about a forecast
that goes out six years, there's a certain assumptions that will change significantly between now and then.
But we have the ability to absorb smaller individual dedicated uses.

So I say that because when we put together, the Mid-Term Financial Plan is done at a higher level in the
budget since we have six years. So we don't do every single line item in every single project necessarily.
We use the summary of what we currently know about build on that by adding specific items. And I think
General Manager Johnson would like to add something.
GM JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr MacLeod. And thank you, Director Guissinger, for the
question. I just wanted to provide some context relative to the question that was supposed to Mr.
MacLeod, recognizing that we're still in the process of internally, that is, of having discussions relative to
what the call for the partnership program will look like.
And we will be bringing the discussion item to the Board in October, I just wanted to, again, manage
expectations as we look to see what is scalable holistically and provide that information. So with that as a
backdrop, once we have that discussion with you all in the October time frame, have informed decisions
as we go forward relative to what would be actually put in the budget to the point that Mr. MacLeod made
recognizing the Mid-Term Financial Plan is utilizing forecasting for six years where. But would be talking
about the first year and then building upon it, contingent upon the input that we receive from members of
the Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So we'll be discussing it-- thank you for that answer. We'll be discussing it in
October, and we have to publish a draft budget October 15. I personally would love to-- obviously, I'm just
one Board member. I'd love to see that at a higher number, like a 2%, which needs to certainly be
included in the budget, I think. Am I right?
GM JOHNSON: So, collectively what we decide on basically will help determine what that number will be
as we go forward. We want to ensure a multitude of different elements with this. Don't want to bite off
more than we can chew, recognizing that we do need to work with jurisdictional partners and recognizing
that oftentimes in certain arenas, there is a need to rely upon RTDs, more or less technical expertise
relative to certain federal requirements or state requirements or things along those lines when we're
looking at discretionary grant funding, outlining a specific call for projects, and things that the like.
We have to manage expectations and temper that, so when we put our best foot forward, we can ensure
that it's for the betterment of the regions as a whole, and then what might that look like sub-regionally as
we work in tandem with service councils. And I don't want to bite off more than I can chew. But basically,
explaining to you all of you if there are so many different factors to take into consideration.
But yes, I hear you loudly and clearly as we talk about a percentage of the budget. But first, we have to
discern what might the program look like before we say how much money will be allocated because I
don't want to put the cart before the horse. But I recognize this is of great interest to a myriad of different
members on the Board.
And as you know, recognizing the conversations that have been served with the Accountability
Committee, that's one commitment we made to ensure there's transparency. And everybody knows the
rules of engagement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
GM JOHNSON: Thank you for the question.
WENDY LONDA: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. And Director Cook, please.

SHIRLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. A few things here. First, the 30,000-foot view is that I look with pride
at several pieces of our long-term financial planning. Relative to a few years ago, we have improved the
pension plan status.
We've restored the state of good repair. We have the three months' operating reserve. I mean, all that is
something that I really view with pride because the agency will be on a sounder footing going forward.
The cost though of that was the service delivery.
We're curtailing on a permanent basis the services that we provide. So that's why in terms of the
partnerships, I think that piece is so critical because it gives us a chance to innovate with our partners,
extend service where we otherwise might not.
And I was going to ask also about the fare study. We are in some ways getting ahead of that a little bit.
We've got an assumption about the amount that we're going to see in reduced fare revenues, partly as a
function of that study. And we haven't seen the study yet.
On the other hand, we in the public, have seen some projections about what that partnership program
might be. So I think purely, if nothing else, as a matter of transparency and communication and being
consistent with what we've said, we should show something in this Mid-Term Financial Plan that indicates
the partnership amounts.
So I just wanted to say I think that's really important in terms of representing to our constituencies and the
stakeholders that we are following through. And we're doing it in a meaningful way by attaching dollars.
As to the amount, I would wait to see your recommendations I would actually favor a greater amount both
based on the feedback we've gotten. But also, because it might be-- Director Dishell might-- I haven't
talked with him, but we had talked about establishing a similar, very small partnership program to help
improve bus stops, for example.
So I don't to the extent we go above 1% and if that becomes a possibility to earmark a piece of that
partnership as potentially-- considering this, not putting it out there as something we want to definitely
see, but considering using a similar framework for partnerships to help improve bus stops, et cetera. So
anyway, that's what I wanted to say. Thank you so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Cook. And Mr. MacLeod, Ms. Johnson, any comments you
wanted to make about that? I think if I understood the comment, that using this also as a form of
communication and transparency. Any comments on that?
GM JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair. Thank you very much, Director Cook, for your comments. And I think
it is important that we're transparent. And then in the point from which I'm coming is we need to discern
what the program is. And I don't disagree with what was said, but we need to establish what that is so we
can discern what the cost is holistically.
So thank you very much. And that will be forthcoming once we develop what the program is in the sense
that it has been somewhat worked on with internal team members. And there's meetings that will ensue
as we go forward. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks for the comments. And I think it's a great point about just communicating with
everyone. Certainly, I think look forward to hearing more in October about the program. And thank you
very much. Director Dishell, please.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you. And yes, thank you, Director Cook, for raising that. I think the
partnerships piece is critical. I also don't think the Mid-Term Financial Plan is the appropriate place for it,
frankly, because you're sort of cherry picking budget line items that you want to see in a long-term plan
that right now really only contains three or four main buckets.
So partnerships is in there. OK, well, why isn't-- and pretty soon, you're then just forecasting out every
budgeted line item. Why isn't each capital program specifically detailed out? Why isn't commitment to our- upgrading our facilities specifically line-itemed out?
So I agree, partnerships are important be great to-- I'm looking forward to hearing more about that
program. What I also don't know that the Mid-Term Financial Plan is the appropriate forward-looking
document for those to show up.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a follow-up on Director Dishell's question. I thought this was all a line itemed
out. Isn't that the case, Mr. MacLeod, that you said you have the spreadsheets and all the different-- for
instance, there's a thing at the end that says limited new projects are included. Does it list the new
projects that are included somewhere?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes so we do have specific items like that we can call out. And that's a great question
because essentially what we're doing on the other items is we're oftentimes using a run rate. So let's say
fuel or parts, for instance.
We would take kind of a run rate, which is our current actual experience with that and, then make certain
assumptions about inflation. So we don't necessarily break it down by doing antifreeze and different parts,
et cetera. So obviously. So it kind of depends on the level of item and whether it lends itself to actually
just projecting forward on an increased basis.
Todd mentioned that one of the things that we do with wages, for instance. So we adjust that based on
service levels supporting the System Optimization Plan, but we also build into their-- we know what our
increase on the collective bargaining agreement will be. So it'll be 4% next year, 4% the following year.
And then we have to make certain assumptions about years following those. Usually it's based on
inflation. So I guess the point is it depends on the item. And we can provide a lot of detail for some things,
but if you were to ask me what positions do you have in 2027, we may not be able to provide that level of
detail.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. That makes perfect sense. And the line that says limited new projects are
included, are those listed?
DOUG MACLEOD: We did not provide those, but I know Todd is prepared to give some examples. And
we can sure provide a list to the Board. So Todd, can you give some examples of what some of those
limited new projects are? And how we went about selecting those and why we went about selecting
those, including those.
TODD NIKKEL: Sure. So the way our process works is, other than the asset management plan, then
departments submit requests. And they have to outline how they-- describe how it meets helps meet our
strategic plan. And then they're evaluated and move forward.

And then senior leadership has the opportunity to take something else and replace it. But so handful of
the items came through Reimagine. They were recommendations through the Reimagine process. And a
couple of larger items I'll mention.
Environmental clearance for future BRT was one that came out of Reimagine. Doing a feasibility study for
level boarding for our light rail. That was one that they recommended. Also, environmental clearance for a
new bus maintenance facility.
And one that wasn't necessarily through Reimagine, but we did bring it in is another year of Spare the Air.
So that's one that we brought in. And then also one that was determined to be strategic-- and some may
know about this and others may not-- is acquisition of a portion of the Burnham yard. And that's just more
from an operational standpoint that there would be-- it would help us operationally on light rail. So those
are some of the projects that we did bring in that were not replacement of assets. Does that help?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it does. Thank you very much. And if you could send us the list, that would
be helpful. I appreciate, as Director Cook said, there are a lot of good things here. I appreciate the
assumptions that are made, and the fact that you've gone to kind of a summary way of presenting that.
At the same time, I feel like, ugh, we we're passing something that we're not fully seeing. And so I have
some concern about that. And as I talked with both Ms. Johnson and Mr. MacLeod about today, I really
would like us to get back to where we're seeing big items like this as a discussion item before they come
to us for approval so that we can take a look at some of these things. I have some mixed feelings about
approving it tonight. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for that comment, Director Guissinger. And I know we had spoken a little bit
about that. And I know part of this was our August timing and the timing that we're running into this year in
terms of having this come to vote at committee, as opposed to coming through as a discussion item.
And it sounds like one idea that was proposed. Mr. MacLeod, would you be open to pulling this from the
unanimous consent? And then we could just do a brief touch on this at the Board meeting. So first of all,
just ask you that question, if you'd be prepared for just a brief presentation at the Board meeting?
DOUG MACLEOD: Absolutely, yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And then Director Guissinger, would that be helpful as kind of allowing for
some more questions between now and then and bringing some other Board members to the discussion?
Sorry, you're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, that would help. And maybe posting or giving us access to the rest of the
materials would make sense. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Mr. MacLeod, are there additional materials you might be able to then provide in
the interim?
DOUG MACLEOD: Definitely we can provide the new asset list. I'll have to get with Todd to see what kind
of format. The way we gather all the data from the Mid-Term Financial Plan is in our software called
EPBCS. And so we'll have to kind of look at what would be a good format to be able to provide and
provide enough data to the Board that it helps evaluate? So yes, I think we can provide additional
information that's readable and usable.

ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. And Director Cook, please.
SHIRLEY COOK: Yeah, I'm sorry to be so vocal tonight. So are you saying, GM General Manager
Johnson, that once we in October have our Mid-Term Financial Plan, we can incorporate an earmark
that's visible within the budget? Is that what you're suggesting?
GM JOHNSON: So Director Cook, let me confer with Mr. MacLeod. Optimally, in reference to what you've
posed, I think that would be advantageous, as I was making reference to the program in and of itself as
we present that to the Board, be very transparent about the dollars that would be allocated.
SHIRLEY COOK: Great.
GM JOHNSON: So I will double back with the team to ensure because I don't want to misspeak without
having the opportunity to confer with our SMEs, our Subject Matter Experts, in this area as relates to the
budget.
SHIRLEY COOK: Thanks. Thanks so much.
GM JOHNSON Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Everybody, not seeing additional hands. I'll just make a comment we briefly touched
on in the pre-meeting. I think one of the significant risks here is staffing. I think it came up earlier this
evening that this is being planned based on the delivery of service against the SOP, the System
Optimization Plan, that was passed, I think, given that we're still looking at the workforce and our people
power problem.
I think, MacLeod, you made the comment that this may change. Of course, we got to look at this year
over year. It may change substantially next year. I think as we look at the budget and as we look at the
Mid-Term Financial Plan and how that's changing, I could imagine that would be one of the major areas
we'll be looking at is potential underspend if we're not able to resolve people power problem.
And there may be strategic discussions to be had as to what that means in terms of appropriation of
funds and so forth. So not necessarily asking a specific question. I know it's a risk I think we need to be
mindful of particularly within this committee.
But Mr. MacLeod or Ms. Johnson, I'm happy to open the floor if you have any comments or reactions to
that. And if not, that's totally fine as well.
DOUG MACLEOD: I think it's a great point. And the only thing I would add is within this plan we've at
least accounted for the funding to provide those certain service levels. So in the event we come below
that, at least we've gone on the conservative side to make sure there was funding available so that we
can provide those service levels.
So yeah, that is going to be one of our big challenges going forward. Who knows what the future holds in
terms of people power? But mainly our focus from Finance is really on the dollar side, but there's a whole
bigger issue which is the actual other non-financial resources that need to be really carefully evaluated.
It's a big risk, as you say.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks for the quick reaction on that. I think that, particularly as we start to look
at inflation and where wages need to be and so forth, there may be discussions we have on other parts of

the system and potentially bigger reallocations of budget than maybe we've had in the past. So as we all
wake up to what a new normal might look like moving forward. Anyway, thanks for the comment on that.
Certainly something for us all to watch in the year ahead.
Well, thank you very much, everybody. I appreciate, the presentation, the information, the discussion
here. I'm going to go ahead and go through-- I'll call the roll for the vote.
I think directionally, we'll plan to not have this on unanimous consent and plan to have this as a brief
discussion item at the end of the month. But let me go ahead and go through the roll to call for the vote.
So Director Broom, please.
DIRECTOR BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Committee Chair Vice Caitlin.
PEGGY CAITLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Cook.
SHIRLEY COOK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Whitmore.
TREASURER WHITMORE: Aye.
WENDY LONDA: And I am a yes. So that will be seven aye-votes, zero no-votes. And the motion will
pass. Thank you very much, once again.
Before we move to the third recommended action, we've been at it for about three hours. I know some
cameras have dropped and come on. I would love to ask for a brief recess for restroom and so forth. So if
there are no objections, I'm going to call for-- we'll call it a five-minute recess and reconvene at 8:45
promptly. Are there any objections from the Board members on this?
All right, we will start promptly at 8:45. I will see you all shortly. Thank you for the patience for those that
are still here and waiting for presentations. Thank you.

