Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
April 12, 2018 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Doug Tisdale
I.

Call to Order

II.

April Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - April 17, 2018
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Gary J. Fontaine – Sign Maintainer – 25 years
Gary R. Schear – Construction Inspector – 17 years
Jim Sutton – Manager, Asset Management – 27 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler

Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker
VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 27, 2018

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.
Construction Award for IFB 37-DE 001. East Metro HVAC and Building
Automation Controls Upgrade Project
It is recommended by Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a
contract to JCOR Mechanical Inc. in the amount of $2,840,224 for the East Metro
HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. It is further
recommended that the General Manager or his designee be authorized to transfer
$551,222 from the Base System Contingency funds to the East Metro HVAC and
Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. Funding for the contract and the
transfer are included in the 2018 budget.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Task Goal
#3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair.
B.
Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH),
Contract 16 FO-017 - Contract Amendment #2
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend Contract 16 FO017 with SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in
the amount of $2,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed Contract amount of
$2,603,096.91. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding
for this Contract will be included in the individual approved project budgets.
This Recommended Action supports two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals. 1Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services. 2 - Task Goal #3 – Asset
Management/State of Good Repair.
C.

RTD Director District Precinct Assignment

It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the revised Director District boundary between
Director District E and Director District G so that all of Arapahoe County Precinct

Number 234 falls within Director District E, which has a lower population than
District G.
This recommendation addresses General Manager 2018 Core Goal #3: Strong
Financial Management: Oversees operating and FasTracks budgets, ensures
compliance with local, state, and federal reporting, and development of financing
plans for future projects.
XII.

Recommended Action
D.
Acquisition of Additional Property Rights (Permanent Easement) – North
Metro Commuter Rail Project
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that
the Board of Directors pass the attached Property Acquisition Resolution certifying
property as necessary for the construction of the North Metro Commuter Rail
Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state
eminent domain law. Funding of this acquisition is included in the 2018 Adopted
Budget for the North Metro Project.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals - Core Goal
#1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
E.

Approval of NewPush Contract for Hosting Services

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract for “Infrastructure as a Service to Host
Smart Media Technology and Ticket Vending Machine Systems in a Payment Card
Industry Secure Environment” with The NewPush, LLC (NewPush) (Contract Number
17DH041) for an amount not to exceed $4,000,000. The contract is for two base
years with three one-year options to extend the contract.
GENERAL MANAGER’S GOALS
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Asset Management/State of Good Repair
XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 29, 2018

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

March 29, 2018

Subject:

Construction Award for IFB 37-DE 001. East
Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls
Upgrade Project

General

Board Meeting Date: April 17, 2018

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to JCOR Mechanical Inc. in the
amount of $2,840,224 for the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. It is
further recommended that the General Manager or his designee be authorized to transfer $551,222 from
the Base System Contingency funds to the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade
Project. Funding for the contract and the transfer are included in the 2018 budget.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Task Goal #3 – Asset
Management/State of Good Repair.
BACKGROUND
The East Metro maintenance and storage facility was constructed in 1979 - 1980 and opened for
operations in September of 1980. The facility is approximately 351,000 square feet and is comprised of
bus maintenance, bus storage, administrative offices and driver support areas.
DISCUSSION
RTD’s East Metro Facility has a total of 17 Supply Air Units (SAU) on the roof that serve the
maintenance and bus storage areas. Four (4) SAUs were replaced in October 1986 by Colorado Piping &
Mechanical and are to be replaced under the scope of this project due to the structural integrity of the
units, availability of parts and issues with maintainability. Six (6) SAUs were replaced in 1995 by AMI
Mechanical, Inc. and remain in good condition with some repair work scheduled to be completed under
the scope of this project. Seven (7) SAUs were replaced by JCOR Mechanical Inc. in 2010 and are in
very good condition. An outside air intake hood is being provided for each of these units as part of this
project to improve the integrity and longevity of the air filters in the SAUs. Two (2) existing air handling
units (AHU) serving the south Drivers End / Administration area are 25 years old and are to be replaced
under the scope of this project due to the condition of the units, availability of parts and issues with
maintainability. The East Metro Facility existing Building Automation System (BAS) is 25 to 38 years old
and has become inefficient and unmaintainable due to the availability of replacement parts. It is to be
replaced under the scope of this project. The bus maintenance tailpipe exhaust system is also to be
replaced under the scope of this project to better control bus tailpipe exhaust air rates and improve
energy efficiency.
BID OUTCOME
The Invitation For Bid (IFB) was advertised on January 31, 2018. Bids were received and opened on
March 6, 2018. Due to the great demand for this type of work in the Denver construction market, both
the bids exceeded the approved budget. After reviewing the Scope of Work and the bids, the low bid
has been deemed appropriate. The two bidders are proposed in the following manner.

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.A

1. JCOR Mechanical Inc.2. Ward Construction

-

$2,840,224
$3,334,000

SBE/DBE INVOLVEMENT
The SBE goal was 5%. JCOR Mechanical Inc., being a certified SBE contractor, will have the capacity to
exceed the goal.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
All funding is local and is in the approved 2018 Budget. In order to award the project to the lowest
bidder, JCOR Mechanical, Inc., we need to transfer $551,222 from the Base System Contingency Fund
into the approved budgeted line item. Over the past year there has been unprecedented price increases
that are affecting the local building industry.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to JCOR Mechanical
Inc. in the amount of $2,840,224 for the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls
Upgrade Project. It is further recommended that the General Manager or his designee be
authorized to transfer $551,222 from the Base System Contingency funds to the East Metro
HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. Funding for the contract and the
transfer are included in the 2018 Budget.
2. Do Not Accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee
to award a contract to JCOR Mechanical Inc. in the amount of $2,840,224 for the East Metro
HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. Further, do not recommend that the
General Manager or his designee be authorized to transfer $551,222 from the General Manager’s
contingency funds to the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project.
The project shall be reduced in scope and re-advertised. Reducing the scope of the project will
not keep pace with the long-term State of Good Repair Goals required for the East Metro Facility.

Prepared by:
Richard Rost, Manager, Facilities Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 29, 2018

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

March 29, 2018

Subject:

Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short
Elliot Hendrickson (SEH), Contract 16 FO-017 Contract Amendment #2

General

Board Meeting Date: April 17, 2018

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to amend Contract 16 FO-017 with SEH to allow for additional
architectural / engineering design services in the amount of $2,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed
Contract amount of $2,603,096.91. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding
for this Contract will be included in the individual approved project budgets.
This Recommended Action supports two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals. 1- Core Goal #1 Successful Delivery of Transit Services. 2 - Task Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair.
BACKGROUND
This Board Action is to increase the existing not-to-exceed limit in the Contract. All other terms and
conditions of the Contract remain unchanged. Services rendered under this Contract provide mechanical,
civil, architectural, electrical, structural, and landscaping, design and engineering services for the
development of selected projects included in RTD's SBP Program and grant funded projects. The
Contract duration was specified for a three year term from November 01, 2016 to November 01, 2019
with award being in the amount of $453,096.91. To date one Amendment in the amount of $150,000
has been added to the Contract for a current not-to-exceed value of $603,096.91 Allowable, are two,
one-year extensions to the Contract. Exercising the two, one-year extensions brings the duration of the
contract to November 01, 2021.
DISCUSSION
Consultant responsibilities include preparation of drawings and specifications, in addition to estimating
and other construction related services as defined in their original Scope of Work. The purpose of this
Contract Amendment is to assist the Capital Programs Department with design services that cannot be
completed with in-house staff. To date, six Work Orders have been written for a total value of
$574,074. The additional $2,000,000 is an estimated value anticipated for the design support needed
for stand up of the North Metro Operations, system wide civil improvements, and facility renovations
including mechanical, electrical, and tenant finishes across the District.
SBE/DBE INVOLVEMENT
The DBE goal for this contract is set at 10%. To date, the consultant is at 22.3%.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This Contract utilizes grant and local funds. The type of funds are dependent upon the funding source of
each individual project. Individual work orders will be funded from the budgets of the projects where the
work will be performed.

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.B

ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend Contract 16 FO-017 with SEH to allow for
additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of $2,000,000 for a new, notto-exceed Contract amount of $2,603,096.91. Work is administered on an as-needed, Work
Order basis. Funding for this Contract will be included in the individual approved project budgets.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager to amend
Contract 16 FO-017 with SEH to allow for additional architectural/ engineering design services in
the amount of $2,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $2,603,096.91. Instead,
proceed with the implementation of a new Architectural / Engineering RFP for a contract with a
new consultant team. This is not recommended because of the delay it will cause on all 2018
projects requiring these services.

Prepared by:
Richard Rost, Manager, Facilities Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 29, 2018

From:

William C. Van Meter,
Manager, Planning

GM

Date:

March 28, 2018

Subject:

RTD Director District Precinct Assignment

Assistant

General

Board Meeting Date: April 17, 2018

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the revised Director District boundary between Director District E and Director District G so that
all of Arapahoe County Precinct Number 234 falls within Director District E, which has a lower
population than District G.
This recommendation addresses General Manager 2018 Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management:
Oversees operating and FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance with local, state, and federal reporting,
and development of financing plans for future projects.
BACKGROUND
On February 21, 2012, in accordance with CRS 32-9-111(1)(a), the Board approved a revised Director
District map to reflect changes in the District’s population as reflected in the 2010 Census. Per CRS 329-111(1)(a), individual Director Districts must be comprised of whole general election precincts, as
established by the boards of county commissioners of those counties wholly or partially within the
district and by the election commission of the City and County of Denver and the City and County of
Broomfield. CRS 32-9-111(1)(a) also requires that “the fifteen directors will represent, to the extent
practical, the people of the district on the basis of population”. While the statute does not provide
specific population requirements, the Board Redistricting Committee established a threshold of five
percent deviation from the average Director District population. At the time of redistricting, the
population of District E was 173,503 while the population of District G was 179,331. The mean
Director District population was 177,847.
From time to time, the individual counties adjust precinct boundaries. Usually, the adjusted precincts
remain completely within individual Director Districts; however, Arapahoe County has adjusted its
precincts so that Precinct Number 234, all of which was previously in Director District G (Director
Mihalik), now falls across the boundary of District G into District E (Director Folska). See attached map.
While a majority of the precinct’s land area lies within District G, a majority of the precinct’s population
is within District E. Furthermore, given uneven growth rates since the 2010 Census, the estimated
population of District G is now approximately 10,000 greater than that of District E (District G: 210,290
vs. District E: 200,470). The precinct in question straddles I-25 in the vicinity of Arapahoe Road. In
order to change the Director District boundaries, the Board must take action.
DISCUSSION
CRS 32-9-111(1)(a) states the following: “No general election precinct may be split into two or more
director districts.” Arapahoe County’s new precinct map places Precinct Number 234 over the boundary
of District E (Director Folska) and District G (Director Mihalik). In order to conform to statute, the Board
must adjust the Director District boundaries so that the new precinct lies exclusively in one Director
District.

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.C

If the Director District boundaries were adjusted to include all of Precinct Number 234 into District E
(already the smaller of the two Districts in question), the population of that Director District’s population
would increase by approximately 570. If the precinct were instead assigned to District G (the larger of
the two Districts in question), that District District’s population would increase by approximately 1,370,
which would make for an even larger population gap between the two districts.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with this action.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action by the Planning, Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the revised Director District boundary between Director District E
and Director District G so that all of Arapahoe County Precinct Number 234 falls within Director
District E, which has a lower population than District G.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors and do not approve the revised Director District boundary between
Director District E and Director District G so that all of Arapahoe County Precinct Number 234 falls
within Director District E, which has a lower population than District G. Instead, the Board could
expand Director District G to encompass the entirety of Precinct Number 234, which would expand
that Director District’s population by approximately 570.

ATTACHMENTS:


RTD_Review_Precinct_234

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Chris Quinn, Project Manager, Planning
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 10

2.11.C.a

229

250

E

Attachment: RTD_Review_Precinct_234 (3441 : RTD Director District Precinct Assignment)

H

249

232

231

247

248
234

233

244

G
235

236

286

237

Legend

238

Arapahoe Precincts

RTD Director Districts
Date: 2/11/2018

±

County Election Precincts & Director District Discrepancies
Precincts: Arapahoe 234
Suggestion: Move lines so that all of 234 is in District E
Director Districts: E and G

0

600

1,200

2,400

Feet

Packet Pg. 11

2.12.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: March 29, 2018

From:

Henry
Stopplecamp,
Assistant
Manager, Capital Programs

GM

Date:

March 29, 2018

Subject:

Acquisition of Additional Property
(Permanent
Easement)
–
North
Commuter Rail Project

General

Board Meeting Date: April 17, 2018
Rights
Metro

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached Property Acquisition Resolution certifying property as necessary for the construction
of the North Metro Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process
under state eminent domain law. Funding of this acquisition is included in the 2018 Adopted Budget for
the North Metro Project.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals - Core Goal #1 – Successful
Delivery of Transit Services
BACKGROUND
RTD must obtain possession of and make available to the contractor for the North Metro Commuter Rail
Project the right of way necessary for the construction of the project. Property needs have been
identified and specific legal descriptions prepared and all acquisitions certified by the Board by
Resolutions in September 2011, June 2013, March 2014 and March 2016 have been acquired. An
additional property interest has been identified by the contractor as required for construction of the
North Metro Commuter Rail Project
DISCUSSION
State and Federal law mandate that specific procedures be followed in the acquisition of property for a
public project when the acquiring governmental entity has the power of eminent domain. RTD staff and
its outside counsel and property acquisition consultants are familiar with and adhere to these processes,
which commence with offer and good faith negotiations, but may result in court filing and eminent
domain proceedings to resolve property acquisitions. The attached Resolution and right of way plan
tabulation sheets specify the additional property that has been delineated by design and authorized the
General Manager and/or the Project Manager to certify specific legal descriptions of the needed
properties.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for this right of way acquisition is included in the 2018 Adopted Budget for the North Metro
project.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Pass the attached Resolution. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached Property Acquisition Resolution certifying property as necessary
for the construction of the North Metro Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to process with all

Packet Pg. 12

2.12.D

requisite legal process under state eminent domain law. Funding of this acquisition is included in the
2018 Adopted Budget for the North Metro Project.
2. Do not pass the attached Resolution. Failure to pass the attached Resolution may result in project
delay.

ATTACHMENTS:


RESOLUTION---North Metro Additional Properties



NM-Board Exhibit-Combined

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Susan Altes, Senior Manager, Real Property
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 13

2.12.D.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. ______ SERIES OF 2018

Whereas, the Board has reviewed and approved maps of the North Metro Rail Line
Additional Property; and
Whereas, the Board has reviewed the attached Right of Way plans tabulation sheet(s),
which lists the property to be acquired;
Whereas, the RTD will conduct good faith negotiations and make an offer of just
compensation to acquire the Property; and
Whereas, to ensure timely completion of the Project, it may be necessary to initiate
condemnation proceedings to acquire the Property and to obtain immediate possession of
the property; and
Whereas, consistent with the intent of the Project, the RTD or its designee shall have the
authority to amend (enlarge, decrease or change) the legal description of the Property as it
deems necessary in the best interest of the Project; and
Whereas, the RTD is empowered pursuant to the laws of the State of Colorado to exercise
the power of eminent domain in the manner provided by Article I of Title 38, C.R.S.
Whereas, the Board recognizes that each and every property owner impacted by the North
Metro Commuter Rail Project, although financially compensated according to the law,
makes a significant personal sacrifice for the public good, a sacrifice not made by others
who benefit from the Project.
Now, Therefore Be It Resolved That:
The Board hereby finds and determines that the Project constitutes a public
purpose, that there is a public need and necessity to acquire the property(ies) within the
corridor for and in furtherance of a public purpose, and that the acquisition(s) are for the
benefit of the public health, welfare and safety.
The Board directs that the General Manager and/or the Project Manager, as the
Board’s delagatees, to certify the specific legal descriptions of the needed properties.
The Board directs that the General Manager and/or his delagatees should negotiate
in good faith for the acquisition of the property and if the delagatee is unable to acquire

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: RESOLUTION---North Metro Additional Properties (3445 : NM Acquisition of Additional Property)

NORTH METRO COMMUTER RAIL PROJECT ADDITIONAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION

2.12.D.a

The Board further resolves to make every possible effort to communicate with
property owners, to recognize time constraints that may impact them, and to address
concerns of owners to the maximum extent feasible without negatively impacting the
Project.
The Board finds and determines that the RTD should obtain possession of the
Property as soon as permitted by law.

Made and adopted this ___ day of _________________, 2018.

__________________________

____________________________

Dr. Claudia Folska, PhD., Secretary

Doug Tisdale, Chair

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: RESOLUTION---North Metro Additional Properties (3445 : NM Acquisition of Additional Property)

any property through good faith negotiations, then the RTD may acquire such property
through the exercise of the power of eminent domain.

Attachment: NM-Board Exhibit-Combined (3445 : NM Acquisition of Additional Property)

2.12.D.b

Packet Pg. 16

3

Settler's Chase Master Association, Inc.
2535 S. Wadsw orth Blvd.
Lakew ood, CO 80227

Thornton, CO

0171913101008

1.487

0.358

1.129

N/A

(64,792)

(15,614)

(49,178)

N/A

Attachment: NM-Board Exhibit-Combined (3445 : NM Acquisition of Additional Property)

2.12.D.b

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: NM-Board Exhibit-Combined (3445 : NM Acquisition of Additional Property)

2.12.D.b

Packet Pg. 18

2.12.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

April 4, 2018

Subject:

Approval of NewPush Contract for Hosting
Services

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: April 4, 2018
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: April 17, 2018

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
for “Infrastructure as a Service to Host Smart Media Technology and Ticket Vending Machine Systems in
a Payment Card Industry Secure Environment” with The NewPush, LLC (NewPush) (Contract Number
17DH041) for an amount not to exceed $4,000,000. The contract is for two base years with three oneyear options to extend the contract.
GENERAL MANAGER’S GOALS
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Asset Management/State of Good Repair
BACKGROUND
The Smart Media Technology (SMT), Ticket Vending Machine (TVM) and website are all hosted at an
offsite facility to provide additional Information Technology (IT) security to these systems for RTD.
Doing so requires a considerable set of IT infrastructure to be deployed and operational. These systems
require a highly complex Data Center with special attention to security, high-availability,
communications, continuation of operations / disaster recovery, etc.
More specifically the hosting, systems and subsystems must:
1. Meet and maintain Payment Card Industry (PCI) security standards.
2. Provide protected high network security standards because of stored customer information.
3. Provide high availability and 24/7 support because if the system were to be down, it would be a
major inconvenience for riders and there would likely be a loss of revenue.
4. Provide regular system backups
RTD currently contracts for these hosting services and has for the past three (3) years. RTD currently
pays approximately $340,000/ year for these services. The $340,000/ year is lower than the new
proposed contract amount because RTD purchased the hardware ($341,798) when we went to a hosted
environment. That hardware has reached its useful life and will be surplused. It has been determined
that it is much more cost effective to have the hosting vendor provide all of the hardware, upgrades to
hardware, and replacement, thus the increased annual cost for this contract.
DISCUSSION
RTD conducted an open procurement for an offsite hosting contractor. Four firms submitted proposals.
One of these proposals was rejected as non-responsive. The responsive proposers were: Arisant,
Dataman, and NewPush. The criteria used to evaluate the proposals were:

Packet Pg. 19

2.12.E

Item
No.
1
2

3
4

Item
Ability to meet PCI Requirements
Ability to meet:
 Service Level Requirement
 After-hours Support
 Security Policy
 Configuration Management Processes
 Support Processes
 Backups
 Disaster Recovery
 Technical Integration
Migration / Project Plan
Cost

Weight
(%)
30
25

25
20

There were four members of the evaluation team representing, procurement, IT system administration,
electronic fare operations, ITS systems administration, and an IT enterprise architect. The four members
of the evaluation team unanimously selected NewPush as the successful proposer.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract authority shall not exceed $4,000,000 for 5 years. This funding provides for $612,036/
year in hosting costs plus $187,964/ year in contingency funding. Funding for 2018 is included in the
2018 Budget with future year funding planned in the Mid-Term Financial Plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract for “Infrastructure as a Service to Host Smart Media Technology and Ticket Vending
Machine Systems in a Payment Card Industry Secure Environment” with The NewPush, LLC
(NewPush) (Contract Number 17DH041) for an amount not to exceed $4,000,000. The
contract is for two base years with three one-year options to extend the contract.
2. Migrate the system back to RTD and provide security and support for the system in-house. RTD
does not have the resources to adequately support the system 24/7 and continuously meet PCI
standards. This would put the Smart Card system and RTD at additional risk.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 20

2.12.E

Packet Pg. 21

