Aug 6 2019
Communications & Government Relations Committee
LYNN GUISSINGER: Call to order. Note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
are digitally recorded and video recorded, and will be captioned and made available to the public
via the Board's website. I'm Lynn Guissinger. I'm chair. We always start off with a safety moment,
and I'll just say that if anything comes up, go out this way up out the door, up the stairs, and that's
the emergency exit. I don't want to always turn my safety moment to a bicycle moment, but in
light of what's happened in Boulder and Denver the last two weeks, I do want to remind people
that we share the road.
I just read an interesting thing in Streetsblog today that there's a rule. It was a study in Minnesota.
They have the same rule that you have to pass a bicycle rider by at least three feet, and they said
of the people who don't give, who encroach and don't give that space, 75% of the time, it's when
they're going around women, which is probably, women are smaller or something. I don't know
what that is. But just be sure to give space as you're going around.
[ISIDE COMMENT]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's right. And finally, download the Transit Watch app. It's proven
to be a great thing to have for safety on all of our buses and trains. All right, thanks. I think the roll
call was digitally taken, so we're through with that. We have no recommended actions tonight so
we're moving right on to updates. And we're very excited tonight to have the state demographer,
Elizabeth Garner, join us.
She's put together a special program for us, and I am committed to keeping this to 20 minutes, so
Elizabeth has a 10 to 15 minute presentation and then we'll take a few questions from the Board.
She has a much longer presentation, like 45 minutes. I think we're all going to find this fascinating.
We can always schedule. She's already offered to come back and do that in a study session or
something, but I will turn this over to Elizabeth now. Thanks.
ELIZABETH GARNER: All right.
Where's my magic-- oh, she's got it set. It's going.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think you have to push that to turn it on.
ELIZABETH GARNER: Is it on? No, I think it's on. Yeah. Perfect. Thank you. So thank you guys
very much for inviting me to be part of your program today. I appreciate it. As Lynn said, we've
got a lot of data and information. So if you ever find the need to do a deeper dive or look at a
different segment, let us know.
Because again, we were created to actually create population estimates and forecasts to be used by
state agencies and local governments. And so we are a resource funded by your taxpayer dollar.

So please use us. We've got a great website as well that you can pull down different slices and
dices.
So what I'm going to do is hit the primary main trends impacting the state. Maybe. What am I
doing wrong, ma'am? I can just say click out loud, and you can click for me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There we go.
ELIZABETH GARNER: All right. So now we need to go back and-- OK, there we go. All right.
So some of the big transitions to be watching in the state as a whole-- and interesting probably for
RTD as well-- is that we're seeing population growing at a slowing rate. And most of you probably
don't believe me, and that's fine.
But it's important to know that because we've built a lot of models in the state that are built on a
growth forecast. And so when we start seeing growth slowing, what does that mean for some of
these? What are the implications? We've also seen a concentrated growth along the I-25 corridor,
which certainly impacts RTD and the rest of the state, understanding that that growth has been
concentrated in one primary area along the I-25 corridor.
Talking a lot about migration-- and I'm going to actually try and convince you that migration is
good. And I know that that might be contrary to a lot of popular belief. But we really do need
people to keep the system moving. And so how do we attract and retain the best and the brightest?
Part of it is really transportation, or actually a large portion of its transportation. So understanding
the role that you guys play in that I think is really important.
Aging, certainly an impact to RTD and our population. And did-- well, I was going to say, did
anybody celebrate a birthday last year? [LAUGHTER] All right. So we know that aging is really
important to the state, because we do it every year. And we're going to be really changing a pretty
big dynamic that really could impact transportation significantly. Not just from ridership, but time
of ridership as well.
Increase in race and ethnic diversity, especially at our youngest ages. And so making sure that
we're also creating products where we're being very conscious about ethnic and racial diversity
within our product base. Slowing income growth, which actually could maybe create more demand
for RTD, if we've got lower incomes. But what does that also mean to tax base and everything else
that might be funding the system?
And then understanding as well as what's happening to changes to industries. As we're changing
our industrial pace, where does transportation fit into that? Where are businesses locating? How
will timing of businesses change that would also potentially impact ridership? Click. Because I'm
not working.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's on.
ELIZABETH GARNER: I don't know why it's not doing--

BARBARA MCMANUS: It's red.
ELIZABETH GARNER: Oh, that's there. So point it at your head. Now I know. Perfect.
[LAUGHTER]
ELIZABETH GARNER: It's hard. So it's always important to understand that Colorado is a part
of the United States. So whatever's happening to the US will impact Colorado. The US is at about
327 million people. We're increasing by about 2 million people a year. That's a 0.6 annual average
growth rate. Slowest growth rate in the United States since the Great Depression in the 1930s. And
I've had to say that three years in a row. And consecutively, it is slower each year.
So we are slowing down. Even though we don't probably feel it here, we are slowing down in the
US as a whole, which will impact the state. We're ranked seventh fastest at 1.4, which is-- you can
quick math-- over twice as fast as the US as a whole, behind some pretty fast states. Eighth in total
growth, increasing by 80,000 this last year. But keep in mind, Texas increased by 378,000. So
there is this big differential within the US as a whole in terms of that growth. And we've increased
by about 666,000 since 2010.
So if we look at this growth along Colorado, the red, orange, yellow counties are the counties that
have increased in population. The shades of blue have declined. The darkest colored red mean the
fastest growth or the largest growth in that number. And so what we can see is that even though
Colorado is one of the faster growing states, one of the better economies in the US, we've seen this
concentrated growth along the I-25 corridor. In fact, 95% of the growth since 2010 has been along
the I-25 corridor, at this Front Range area.
Contrary to historical trends, which was closer to 83% to 84%. So we have seen a significant
change. And the question is, why? Is it access? Is it access to networks? Is it access to internet? Is
it because of the industries we're growing? What's creating this bifurcation?
And so I think that's a really important question for transportation because of the role that you
play, especially along the I-25 corridor. But what does it mean for the future as well in terms of
growth and development within the state? I'm trying. What am I not hitting?
When we change in total population-- this is really important to identify-- is that we've got two
components. The bottom part that's blue is called natural increase. Its births minus deaths. So again,
births minus deaths. So on net, that is a baby. Keep that in mind. That is a baby. Births minus
deaths.
The red is net migration, the ins minus the outs. We can see our natural increase starting to slow
down. We can see net migration also going through these peaks and troughs. We can see in 1973- so this starts in 1970-- we had one year over 100,000. In the '90s into the early 2000s, we had
seven years over 100,000.
We have not had over 100,000 since 2001. Yet what do we hear consistently? Unprecedented
growth. No, Mike. No, look that up in the dictionary. We have been there before. We're at 1.4. In

the '90s, we were 3% annual average growth rate. In the '70s, we were 5% annual average growth
rate. We have seen this all before. So whenever anybody says that, just no. They don't know what
the word means.
When we're-- did I go too far? OK, perfect. I'm sorry, one more. I went back too far. Now I've
screwed it up.
One of the biggest things to understand though with this slowdown in the natural increases, because
we're seeing an increase in deaths and a slowdown in births. And that's what's creating that
downward pressure on natural increase. When we migrate people to Colorado, this is the age
distribution of our migrants. So very concentrated in the 22- to 37-year-old.
Very few people at older ages. But you can see that little bump right around 65. We get a slight
positive in migration on that 65 plus population, but it's very small relative to the rest of the state.
Next slide.
Why do people move here?
KATE WILLIAMS: Because it's great here.
ELIZABETH GARNER: It's great. It's great because there's jobs, right? And so what's really
important to understand is over time, we can see as there's stronger job growth, there's stronger net
migration. As there is weaker job growth, there's weaker in migration. So when we're hearing a lot
of people talk nowadays about limiting population, it's interesting.
I'm like, all right. So you're not a fan of people. I get it. What do you think about jobs? Love jobs.
Jobs are the best thing in the world. I'm like, all right. Go with me. A job is a person. Housing units
where that job sleeps at night. We need to learn how to balance and/or use our transportation
system to make that balance work well.
And so it's really important, I think, for us to all understand that if you put a limit on housing units,
that is only going to make housing increase. That's not going to limit the population. Because
people will continue to come, and come up with other alternatives. Click. Yeah. Click.. I'm just
going to go click.
It's also important to understand that age is an important piece in Colorado, an important change
in Colorado. Primarily because we always change our preferences based on age. What we do, what
we buy, jobs that we create, the type of housing we want, how we participate in the labor force,
our income levels, our service demands, all change by age. Click.
This is Colorado's age distribution. And what we can see is that the black line is at age 65. Nothing
because there's magic at 65. It's just a nice line at 65. We can see our baby boomers in the purple.
We can see to the right of that, we've got our silent generation, our green Gen X. Our purple
boomers. I mean, our red millennials, and our blue Next Generation, and then the following
generation after that.

A couple of things to note is one, is that our peak person in the state is 30 years old. The peak birth
in the United States was in 1990. 1990, 1991. So it fits out perfect with our total population in the
US that our peak person is right there at 29, 30.
We can see this slowdown after that because we have seen a decline in births every year. Right
now we're about 7,000 fewer births per year than we had in 2007. Why do I say that? Because
they're not entering kindergarten. They're not entering primary school.
They're a big part of your base for high school students. They're not quite at that high school age
yet, because we started seeing this slowdown in 2007. But if you start seeing a slowdown in teens
in a couple of years, it's because they weren't born. And that's really important to take into account
and think about our total population.
We can also see the folks that are aging into the 65 plus, which probably have a different ridership,
time of ridership, not maybe as many commuters during the same pattern. So thinking about how
that might strategically change within the system as well I think is important. Click.
Every county is different though. That was the state as a whole. This is Denver. Click. This is
Douglas. So every county is different. So understanding your entire system, transportation system,
is so important. Because you're going to get different riders and different types of riders based on
the county that you're in and the age dynamic.
And look at that significant age dynamic in Douglas County. Their peak person is 16. Can you
imagine having to-- well, really their peak person is 50. But look at the youngins. 16. So over the
last several years, they've got an increasing number of 16-year-olds at an increasing rate. And
imagine what that does to a system, especially if they're drivers.
[LAUGHTER]
But again, important to see this distinction. Click. So if we look just in the short run between 2018
and 2025, our total forecast of the population is to increase at 10% per year. Our youngins-because we're not having the births-- are under 17, are increasing only by 2%. Entering the labor
force about 10%.
Prime working age, about 12%. Our older age workers-- so the 55- to 64-year-olds-- decline in
population. So a declining rate, because that's kind of the Gen X coming through the system.
Retirement, 23%. Retired, 50%. Long term care, 22%. So this is a significant change where we're
seeing much more downward pressure on the youngins and an increase in pressure at that older
age group. Next slide.
We're also becoming more racially and ethnically diverse, and especially at our youngest age
groups. What this slide shows is that at our population under the age of 18, currently about 43%
people of color. If you look at our 65 plus, only about 16% people of color. If we then forecast that
population to 2050, we can see that basically all ages under the age of 44 forecasted to be primarily
people of color, so over 50% people of color really looking at that age 44 and younger.

So I think that this is really important, to see are we being culturally sensitive? Are we being
racially and ethnically sensitive when we're looking at transportation? If that does change by age.
I don't know if it does. You guys are transportation experts. I'm not. But it's just a question to ask
and see within the system. Next slide.
So just a quick into the forecast. A lot of people ask, how do we do our forecasts? And we look at
two different components. One is really this job demand. The other is a population supply. So we
forecast jobs out into the future, looking at the US as a whole and how Colorado fits into the US
picture. What industries do we have, and how are they growing nationally, and where do we fit?
So we take that, and we push that out into the future, and we grow jobs based on our share of the
US. At the same time, we take our current population, we age you through time, looking at birth
rates and death rates, based on age, race, and ethnicity. And that's our supply of workers. So we've
got a supply of workers and our demand for workers. We bring them together, and where we need
people, we migrate them in. And where we don't need people, we migrate them out.
Next slide. And the reason I bring that up is because it's not hocus pocus. I mean, it's really-- we
model both of these things based on real demands. So if we look out into the future, we're
forecasting Colorado's population to start slowing down. And that looks at the total population
change. The black line is where we are right now. A short blip increase in demand for people in
that migration. But then slowly slowing down out into the future.
I think we hit our peak natural increase back in 2007, just because we're seeing this slowing in
births and an increase in deaths. But that circle where I circled that, that is really driven by
retirements. We're forecasting over a million people leaving the labor force in the next 15 years,
just based on our age distribution. And that's extending people's labor force participation rate, but
slowing down out to the future. Next slide.
Even with that in the case, we're forecasting Colorado to increase from about that 5.7 million
currently to 8.1 million by 2050. With the largest share in that darkest blue, which is the Front
Range. So that is 2.4 million. And I know I said slowing down. And that is slower. We used to
have this forecast actually was closer to 9.1 million back in 2007 before the recession. So we are
slowing things down based on age, based on economic climate, and based on the recession. Next
slide.
But even within that 2.4 million, 2 million along the Front Range. So if you're into friends, more
friends. Denver metro area had-- there was a question on if you'd like friends or not. I'd like that.
Denver metro area, 1 million. Up in the north Front Range, 600,000. South Front Range, 400,000,
with the rest of that 2.4 million. So 400,000 around the rest of the state, With gray representing
counties that were forecasting flat to declines. So really growing this bifurcation between the parts
of the state. Next slide.
I could be wrong. There's a lot of risk to this forecast. And we know that, and you guys do
forecasting all the time. Water, competitiveness with other states, policies, recessions, could
change this forecast. But the big picture to take away is that we are continuing to increase, but at

a slowing rate. But a lot of that growth along the I-25 corridor along this front range, with about a
million in all of the counties that bought in to that million in this Denver metro area.
Aging is really important for us to be looking at. And that's part of why we're slowing as the US
as a whole, slowing because of the aging, slowing because of the slowing in births. Concentrated
growth along the I-25 corridor. Definitely an aging population. So your client base, our client base
for the state as a whole, is aging. And I think we need to be very conscious and be looking at that.
And becoming more racially and ethnically diverse.
So with that, I'm just going to put a click, but I'm not going to say anything. I'm just going to put
that there so you see it. So that there's like subliminal messages, that it's really important to
participate in the census next year. And I think RTD is an important partner for Census 2020 and
making sure that people around the state and around this Denver metro area are well aware of it,
that it's important, it's easy, and safe. And a lot of the dollars that we get to the state come from
our count in Census 2020. So it's really important for all of us to be aware of that.
So with that, I know I'm really close to not having any time for questions, but any questions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Wow. We got a couple quick questions here. Yep. OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: What is it? L-T-F-M? There's an acronym. LFPR.
ELIZABETH GARNER: Labor Force Participation Rate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I have a question about the-- let's see here. The point you said-- and you
said it more than once-- the race and ethnic diversity increasing. And I was curious-- the slides
don't have page numbers, so forgive me-- it says diversity by age. If you have that based on
demographics, and what story-- I guess I'm trying to reconcile displacement and communities
seeing less of themselves in their communities, and more of other ethnic diversities in their
neighborhoods, and what story is that telling you, or is there a story behind that? I'm trying to
reconcile that we are seeing increases in race and ethnic diversity, but at the neighborhood level.
That may or may not be the experience.
ELIZABETH GARNER: So I think that's a really good question. Thank you very much. So we are
seeing this-- it's interesting. We are seeing this increase in race and ethnic diversity. And it's all
age driven. So most of that diversity right now is really in our under 18 population.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, I see.
ELIZABETH GARNER: And so then you just play that demographic model out, and you age
people through time. So if you were 18 last year, there's a good chance you're 19 this year. And so
it's really easy then to age people through time. And so that diversity just happens kind of as a
wave. And so it's really-- and I'd even say it's our under 24 that's becoming much more diverse,
and less so at the older ages.

But you talked about neighborhoods. And I think that's a really good question. We've got race and
ethnicity by different race ethnic groups by county and municipality. And a lot of people have it
down to the census tract. And we know that we've talked about displacement and other things like
that. But as a whole, as the system as a whole, we're actually seeing much more. But maybe that
diversity isn't in the same places as we've seen it historically.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. So if we were to break this down by both age and county, that would
look different depending on the county or municipality or whatever that you may be looking at.
ELIZABETH GARNER: Absolutely, every county. You know how the saying is, if you know one
county in Colorado, you know one county in Colorado? That's exactly the story. So I would be
happy-- feel free to connect with us if you'd like to look at this more in depth by a certain area. I'd
love to.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am really sorry, but I think we have to cut this off. We have a long
meeting, and that was our agreement. As I said, Elizabeth Garner has agreed to come back. She's
got more to the presentation. We can set this up if we want to as a study session next year. And
thank you so much. That was great.
ELIZABETH GARNER: Thank you guys.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
[APPLAUSE]
OK. It's all right. Somebody else is coming up. All right. Our next update, I have to find where we
are. But Pauletta Tonilas, talking about communication update.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good evening, everyone. To start
off with tonight, I would like to introduce our Senior Manager of Public Relations and
Engagement, who has been hired since I was before you last a couple of months ago. And that
person is Marta Sipeki. I sent an email out when we hired Marta, but just wanted to introduce her
and frame her experience. I'd like Marta to stand up, please.
[APPLAUSE]
So Marta is actually a familiar face and a friend to us of RTD because she has been a consultant
in communications for many years, and has worked for us as a consultant on the US 36 Bus Rapid
Transit Project, on the North West Rail Project, and most recently on the State Highway 119
Project. And she's a very seasoned engagement and media professional. And so we're very pleased
to have her with us as a full time staff member now. And so she's already been here for like six
weeks.

And the last time I was before you, I introduced Steven Brier, our Senior Manager of Marketing.
But Steven is also here tonight. We are filling the vacancies that we've had in the communications
department. We also offered the job of Market Research Manager to Jeff Tranguch, who was
before you a couple of months ago with me and provided the presentation on the Customer
Satisfaction Survey. Jeff has been with us for three years and has done a fantastic job. And so he
now is our Manager of Market Research, and interviews are being done now for the Creative
Services Manager and the Digital Communications Manager. So we are ramping up our staff,
happy to report. So I just want to make sure that I was able to socialize that with the Board.
Here to just talk to you about a couple of key high points from the last couple of months and where
we're going from here. One of the big things our team is working on is the Reimagine RTD process
and how the engagement and communications for that massive program that we're all going to be
working on will occur. We of course will be working in concert with our partners of the consultant
team. And you'll hear more about that a little later in the next committee meeting.
But I wanted to just give you a little highlight of the types of things that you can expect to see in
the engagement process over the next couple of years of Reimagine RTD. We'll be doing
community listening sessions. We'll be starting the engagement process with those and doing quite
a bit of engagement in many different methods-- public meetings, stakeholder meetings, telephone,
town hall meetings, which you'll all of course be invited to be a part of. And we'll be doing one for
each of you as we do every year. We'll be getting those on your schedules so that you can plan on
those meetings as part of our engagement process.
A speaker's bureau will be going out and doing presentations, educating people on what is
Reimagine RTD. What's the purpose? How are we looking to reimagine the mobility of the future?
And how do people fit into that? Of course, online engagement is going to be very important.
There are a lot of people who will not come to a public meeting, but they will do something from
the comfort of their own home or on weekends to engage with us in an online fashion.
We will be doing focus groups and a public opinion survey. Many of you mentioned that you
would like for us to start hearing from people who are not riders. So why don't people ride? What
would make them want to ride more? So we have a great opportunity through Reimagine RTD to
do this first layer general public opinion survey, which we'll be working with our consultant
partners on. And so that'll be part of the engagement process, and listening and feedback.
Educational videos, pop up events, and tablet engagement at various places and community events.
Media briefings, because the media is going to be our friends in this in terms of helping to keep
the public and mass educated about this along the way. And the media has already started to tell
this story with us as we launched last week Reimagine RTD with Chair Walker. And then of
course, to keep our communications partners across the district very informed, because our PIOs
and communications partners at all of our different entities will be key to get our information
through their channels. So these are just some of the things that you'll be able to participate in.
The other thing I want to make sure you're aware of is the CAC is very excited about participating
with us and being part of the engagement and helping us to implement our engagement program.
And so we'll be looking to the CAC as well. Let's see if I can do this now. OK. There we go. So

the LiVE program is live. We have been implementing our LiVE program and allowing people to
take advantage of the application process through the peak system through the state since last
Monday the 29th.
I can report that we are about somewhere in the 170 range of people who have successfully applied
through the system so far, just in a week and a half. It's been a great collaboration with people
across the whole metro area. And one of the things that we did was work with a marketing outreach
firm-- or not firm, a team of people-- who really helped us determine how best to communicate
about the LiVE program. They also helped us come up with the name LiVE. I think we've talked
to you about that before in previous sessions.
But this group was really key in helping us message this and making sure that the language we use
and the messaging was considerate and was the right tone. And so we're very happy that we've
been able to launch this with all of our internal partners. And you'll have more of an update on this
next week at the committee meetings.
I don't know if I'm not pointing this in the right place. OK. A quick update on commuter rail
outreach efforts. You're aware that we have done community meetings about quiet zones to educate
the public. We held a public meeting on the A line, one on the G line. In addition, we did a pancake
breakfast on a Saturday in each corridor location.
And the public meetings were actually fairly well attended for people to come out in the evening.
The pancake breakfast not as much, but it gave us that opportunity to do a little bit more of an
organic kind of opportunity to talk with people. But we were glad with the feedback that we got
and the questions. What our team has been doing is putting the answers to these questions together
that came from the community. And we sent out newsletters to each of the community stakeholder
lists with a link to those answers, and those are on our website.
And so one of the ways that we want to keep the communities better informed is to do this periodic
e-newsletter, to make sure that they're aware of not only when we might be blowing horns, but just
on their corridor areas, things that are happening. And so we'll be sending that periodic email out
as well. And then we're already starting on the quiet zone and safety education on the N line to get
a head start and to get ahead of the game.
Let's see here. OK, there we go. We continue to be big news. One thing that I thought would be of
interest to the Board is to see the type of earned media that we are generating. Since January, we
have had over 2,800 media stories-- local, regional, national, international-- about us and the things
that we're doing. That translates into about 960 million touches through earned media, which is
substantial. This is significant.
And the little donuts that you see there just showcase in the first quarter-- so from January to the
end of March of this year-- the media stories that were neutral, positive, and more of a negative
tone. And more of a negative tone can be that we had the derailment on the R line, or that somebody
was robbed at a station, one of our light rail stations, or harassed on a light rail train. So those are
all going to show negative tone.

But you see that the positive earned media stories are quite a bit more than the negative. And then
the neutral stories, which is just getting the information out, is significant. And we're getting the
message out. From April to the end of July, we also had significant media coverage. Obviously
we've had 50th anniversary rail openings, so that's been great. And I think the fact that we have so
many neutral and positive stories combined says a lot about how people are telling our stories.
And then just looking ahead, we have our All Employee Event at Elitch Gardens on August 11.
The launch of our RTD newsroom, which is going to be a new page and a new entry into our RTD
website that will allow us to showcase more videos, eventually podcasts, thought leadership pieces,
the news that we're generating, almost like a news web page. We're looking to launch that in early
September. Our Reimagine RTD engagement September, October will begin.
And then Enhanced Rider Alert System, which I think will be great for people who get our rider
alerts, because it will drill down more into a specific level and give them rider alerts about, for
instance, a station that they typically get on at or a bus stop. And so that Enhanced Rider Alert
System will be happening this fall. And then the launch of our 50th anniversary New RTD Jingle
Contest. For those of you that weren't at our 50th anniversary event, Dave kind of-- he launched
that and made mention of that. So you'll be seeing more about that.
DAVE GENOVA: I'm working on my jingle.
PAULETTA TONILAS: He's working on his jingle. So that's the update, and I'm happy to
entertain any questions that the Board has at this time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Can we get Peyton Manning and that country guy to work on the jingles?
They could be doing it on a train, you know? They could put it on a train.
PAULETTA TONILAS: That would be awesome, if they submitted something.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, there you go. I'll ask them, if you want.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: On the RTD newsroom page, do you have room for one, our financial
transparency portal, and secondly, safety reports?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So the resources links-- we'll have a section that'll be resources. We
haven't worked specifically about what else we would put on there for financial transparency or
for safety. But without question, these are things that we can talk with our internal staff about and
how to showcase that beyond what we do. The safety piece of it, we do have a couple of campaigns
that are in the works right now for safety, especially for people to not be distracted when they're
around trains in particular. So we're happy to talk through that more, and we're still in a nimble
state in terms of the design and the elements that we'll have on the newsroom page.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. It would be lovely to see the financial transparency highlighted there,
as it's a bit buried. Although they're under Reports and Policies on the bottom of our page. But if
that is a news page, I think that is important for citizens to see the access link. Ridership stats,
whether that's putting our monthly report, perhaps in a one page like we really have it in our packet.
Those would be the items that I would like to see added to newsroom, as I think its news. OK.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks. Oh, I'm sorry. One other item. What is the dollar figure for cost of
the Reimagine process?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, the consultant contract, I believe the Board approved the whole
overall process for two years is about $4 million. And part of that is from grant funding-- I maybe
stealing these guys’ thunder. But they'll be able to answer more specifically. In terms of the
Reimagine RTD of what our communications team will be doing, it is within the confines of our
existing budget and how we are looking to optimize our resources.
For instance, the telephone town halls was already a method that we were going to employ this
year. That now we're going to use as part of Reimagine. So our team is not looking to ask for any
additional resources. We'll be doing that within the resources that we have allotted.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Just one note first before my question. I agree with the idea, if we can, of
putting benchmarks or somehow on the website. I've seen that for other-- Sound Transit, and some
other agencies, where it's easily found and just seems forthcoming and helpful, having benchmark
measures that we already collect put on the website.
OK. My question was on the quiet zone outreach-- again, thank you very much for that-- in addition
to seeking more communication, there were some concrete steps we indicated we'd follow up on.
And I understand that's happening. So in other words, finalizing isn't just a matter of getting
information out, but it's reporting on what we might be able to do once we've determined that in
terms of the bells and the horns. At least that's for the T line corridor. So I'm talking with Allen
Miller. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Pauletta, can you-- so I see stakeholder engagement, community
listening sessions, and public meetings. Can you tell me the difference between those?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Sure. So community listening sessions-- this is my opinion, and this is
me kind of framing what I believe-- is a good way to go into this engagement process, is the initial
meetings that we do via listening sessions. Because we want to listen to the public and the people

we serve. And again, this is all about the people. And so for me, it's yes, framing what we're here
to do. But it's more about listening.
So community listening sessions can be larger scale or smaller scale meetings that we do, for
instance, in concert with church organizations or faith-based organizations, community
organizations, where we're really there to listen. The public meetings are going to be more of a
traditional larger meeting where we're there to, again, make a presentation and have some feedback
at that meeting, whether that be tablet engagement or immediate results that aggregate, that
everybody can see their responses right away, that type of thing.
Stakeholder meetings are going to be with certain stakeholder groups. And you'll hear a little bit
more about that later in the next committee meeting. So it's really about, what's the intent and the
scale of the meetings? But I wanted to differentiate those. And I'm glad you picked up on that,
because initially out of the chute it should be about listening.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Just a quick follow up. With the listening sessions, I think one of the
things that I've heard from constituents is sometimes they hear from us, and they don't know what
we do with the information that they provide to us. So if you can talk a little bit about your plans.
And you still may be in the planning phases of what we intend to do with the information that we
collect from those listening sessions and how it might inform the Reimagine process.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. We're very preliminary in the steps, because we're getting going
with our consultant partners in figuring a lot of this out. And they have an amazing team, a very
robust team with experts in various discipline areas. And so there'll be various ways that each of
their team partners will be able to assist us in how best to showcase information.
Again, the intent, however, is that every time we go out with a listening or feedback type of
exercise, that we'll be taking that in. And some of this will be happening throughout the next year
and a half until we kind of start to frame whatever this plan for the future looks like. And then, of
course, the Board is a key piece of that.
And so how do we then present to you in a thematic way so that you can see the feedback as we're
getting it, and to bring everybody along with that. Because it really is going to be a systematic
effort of process and how one phase basically streamlines into the next. And so it's a great question,
but I don't have specific answers for how yet because we're really just kicking off.
SHONTEL LEWIS: As you're thinking about the how, the only thing I would ask for the focus
groups is youth and our elders, just as a demographic to call out. Sometimes we forget. That's it.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. A couple of things. This is really
exciting. And so I think that this is our chance to really shine. I would like to request two things. I
would like to have a page called Heads Up, which would be like this bus service is going to stop
running, or you may see it late. As a transit rider, it would be so cool if there was one place I could

go to while I'm waiting for a bus wondering what's happening. Just a basic communications.
Running late, just want to give you a heads up.
And the other is on all of these outreach meetings, I would like to have a page that says Since You
Asked, where we would identify someone's question and respond to it. I think that that would be
cool, so that people could actually see that we are listening, and there's a place you can go to to
see what came from that.
And then lastly, as you're doing these outreach to the media groups, are you looking-- and I'm sure
I know the answer to this-- but are you looking at media briefings being besides the mainstream
media? Like Univision and Asian-PAULETTA TONILAS: Semanario.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Semanario. But also the Asian culture, all of them, so that
everybody's getting that information.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Absolutely. The media briefings-- we do a lot with the media now, but
this will be, I think, very important that we have, again, a broad-based approach as we have been
doing media visits since I came back. We're going to be looking at even expanding that more as
we keep the media informed and give them a chance to weigh in and give us feedback too and
understand what we're trying to accomplish here. And so the diversity amongst media will be as
important as the diversity of the public that we serve and we want to listen to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. No other questions? Anything else?
PAULETTA TONILAS: That's it. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's it. Thank you. OK.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I'll turn it over to our government relations folks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Our government relations teams. You're all coming up tonight. You can
use these chairs. I shared.
BARBARA MCMANUS: (WHISPERING) Director Folska on the line. The director wants to
discuss some government questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. I was just reminded that Director Folska is on the phone.
Hello, Director Folska. I apologize if I've missed you, but we will make a point of seeing if you
have questions. All right. Who's kicking it off? Is it Brandeberry-McKenna, or Sherry, are you
starting anything?

SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Nope. We just have our team here. And Jennifer is missing tonight
because she's on a well-deserved vacation. So we have the other BBMK folks here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please just identify yourself as you start, OK?
ROGER SHERMAN: Sure. Roger Sherman with CRL Associates. I'll just add a couple things, a
couple notes to my written report. The first is I think the real significance of the November 2019
local elections. And I put in here I actually was wrong. I think we now have nine mayors who are
either term limited out or decided not to run. And we've got at least two that will be very, very
competitive races.
So we're going to-- the landscape escape of our local elected leadership is really changing. And I
think it's coming at such an interesting time with Reimagine RTD, that we're going to making-- I'll
be working with the communications people and make sure that we're also connecting with
candidates that are running, and that we get an early start in those races, where we're going to see
real significant change from leadership that we've gotten to know over many, many years. And I
think it's really something we need to keep track of.
The analogy in Denver, you've seen some interesting votes recently with city council, five new
members. And it has changed the dynamics on council, how things are operating. And I think we're
going to see similar things happening in our local jurisdictions. And how that impacts RTD is
going to be something that we'll all be watching and be thinking about. So that's the first thing.
Citizen Advisory Committee, I mentioned and you've received the letter. The co-chairs will be
here in October. I did want to point out that one member, Rodger Hara, is here. The committee has
decided that they will always have a representative at every committee meeting, Board meeting,
moving forward. They will then report back to the full committee what happens at the Board
committee meetings and study sessions and meetings. So that is part of their time commitment,
that they want to be more fully engaged and understanding what the Board is doing.
They're also frankly really excited about General Manager Genova, his involvement and
commitment to the committee and Pauletta's engagement. She didn't mention, but I'll mention, I
think she's presenting at their next work session about Reimagine RTD. And I believe there's a real
interest in engaging the CAC in that process and using that resource to make presentations and to
help us with the public engagement aspect. So very excited. I think, again, the timing is really
good.
And then lastly, you received a calendar notice from me. We've moved. You know that we have a
tradition of having the CAC and the Board and the senior leadership team gather at a kind of a
roundtable, a loose agenda, but an opportunity to talk about how the year has gone, what is coming
in the future. I think it's a great way to have interaction.
I know we've had tremendous participation by both the Board and senior leadership team in the
past. We discovered after we set the date that the original date conflicted with APTA, and
anticipated a number of you all would be-- both staff and Board-- would be at APTA. So we've

moved it back one week. So if you didn't get that on your calendar, please we'll make sure that you
get that taken care of. And that's it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Who's next? Oh, I guess we'll do questions. All right. Director
Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I'm wondering if there's any interest in flipping that, since we're having
a member of Citizens Advisory at a Board meeting, if we are in turn having a Board member at
the Citizens Advisory Council meetings as well.
ROGER SHERMAN: Do you want my opinion?
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
ROGER SHERMAN: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: You asked me. No. No, I'd like to see the Board, if they're interested in doing
that, and if people are willing to step up. There's 15 of us. That means once a year. Right, they
meet once a month?
ROGER SHERMAN: Generally.
KATE WILLIAMS: So that's like once a year, you'd have to go. Can I see how many hands, if
anybody would be interested in doing that? OK. We'll talk to you about it offline. Thank you.
Sorry, Director Lewis would like to hear your opinion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So would I.
ROGER SHERMAN: I think it's great if people would come. I think we've had a challenge, but
it's not been in recent years, where Board members would come in. It ends up changing the
dynamic of the discussion if Board members are-- but we've had recent-- Director Menten's come.
You've come. Where they talk, listen a little bit, and they're there to create a relationship. I think
that's the proper model. But if a Board member gets overly engaged in the committee's discussion,
it just changes the dynamic.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, yes. Having attended the Citizens Advisory Committee both
recently and other times in the past, I continue to get a feeling that the CAC-- and speaking to
members directly-- do not understand the purpose any longer of the committee. And honestly, I
think some of them think it's a waste of their time. And especially in the middle of the afternoon,
when some of them have jobs.
And to have the commitment and then find out perhaps there's not as much direction, there's not
tasks. It's almost like, let's make up some tasks for the Citizens Advisory Committee. And that is
things that-- it's not just me sitting on the side and watching the meeting. That's one-on-one

conversations with them. So when I ask this, the Citizens Advisory Committee is a big part of your
contract, right? Roger?
ROGER SHERMAN: I think it's a small part of the contract. It was added on a few years ago,
yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So with them meeting monthly, if I were to have the opportunity to
vote on where the committee should go, I would-- understanding that we have some sort of a
promise to the voters that we made with the FasTracks, along with a long other list of promises
made from FasTracks, where we haven't fulfilled those things-- that we should take the Citizens
Advisory Committee and perhaps move them into a role where one, they are self-moderating, selfregulating. They get to choose where they go.
We already have staff members who attend these meetings and assist them. And if they want to
meet quarterly and have less of a burden on taking time away from work, maybe that would fit
them better. They can always, always still keep the Citizen Advisory Committee title and still
participate in the Reimagine, the customer service panel that we've got, the two ADA panels. And
I think we would realize a net savings to the agency by not having to take so much time of what is
your contract and dedicate it to these people I've heard from that just not clear what kind of-- why
we're making up things for them to do, when FasTracks right now looks to be pretty much stalled
for the moment. And that was the purpose of the Committee.
On that same line, it says that the Citizens Advisory Committee submitted a letter outlining
recommendations on ways that could better represent citizens. Where is that letter? What's that?
OK. All right. I may have seen that. So that's my thoughts on the CAC. And I felt it was my duty,
having been to these meetings, talked to these committee members, and that they feel very vague
and without a purpose, to share that with the group. Because I don't think everyone's had the
opportunity to attend a CAC meeting and see perhaps frustration from some members. Thank you.
That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I appreciated Director Menten's input. It seems to
me that for a long time, that the CAC is, in a certain sense, lacking in direction. And we've been
struggling. We've all been struggling to find a way to have them have a useful, productive
interaction with us. And so I loved seeing that letter in which there was a real intent for them to
work with us in the Reimagining RTD, and also doing what I think they were supposed to do,
which is really try to be a funnel between the community and RTD, and RTD and the community.
It's not an easy thing to do.
But I would suggest, because they are so talented-- because I've, the last few years, been involved
with interviewing them-- it's an amazing group of people, just amazing people with experience
with transportation and government. Just really impressive. That they be sent our Board packages,
just like we are. And they can take a look at it and be kept up to date. This is what the Board is
doing.

And these are smart people. If they want to do anything about it, they can propose it to CAC. Let's
do something about this. And then propose to us, here's what we would like to do. And then we
could see, does this make sense or not? So it would be putting it on them. Because they have the
expertise and the experience. They're really good people. So that's just a suggestion that I have to
make them more relevant for themselves and for us. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Roger, the letter that was sent to us for the CEC-- or CAC,
excuse me. That's DPS jargon. Was there an intent behind that? Did you want the Board to do
something with that? And I have a follow up question too.
ROGER SHERMAN: I think they suggest some-- I don't think it requires a Board vote, as much
as just a signal. And I don't have the letter in front of me, but there are three or four
recommendations. I think both Director Menten and Lubow bring up-- it's true. The Committee
has struggled. And the biggest challenge is I think the agency and the Board have to provide some
direction for them.
And I don't think they feel like their time is being wasted. I think they would like to be able to do
more. And we have seen a marked difference in the last six, eight months of their excitement and
interest. And I think it's the General Manager should get the credit for that. We've had every senior
leadership team member present and cycle through the Committee.
And there are some real concrete ways that they're going to engage. And I think that transition
from a FasTracks focused to an RTD focused was-- it took some thought. And it's taken-- we've
had to feel our way about that. But I think what was included in that is a real reflection of what we
heard from Board members, and a result of conversations with the senior leadership team.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Rolf, is there opportunity for us to have this conversation in greater detail
as a Board, maybe not here, but in the coming weeks? It sounds like it's something we might want
to chat about.
ROGER SHERMAN: Could I suggest maybe the-- I mean, we are going to do the roundtable in
October. Do you want to do it as just a Board? I mean, that might be a good opportunity when
we've got everyone there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am only a portion of the Board, so I won't speak on behalf of the rest of the
Board members. I'm OK with that. But I'll defer to other folks.
ROGER SHERMAN: I can talk with you later.
JUDY LUBOW: Works for me.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. If I understand the question, you're
wondering if it's OK under Robert's Rules and the Board's operating procedures to have-- if you
schedule a meeting, whether it's a special meeting or a study session perhaps or whatever,

something like that could be worked out. Of course, if you have a quorum or a certain number over
what's needed, you'll need to give notice and have it be a public meeting. Which it is anyway.
Citizens Advisory Committee meetings are noticed in public.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well maybe I'll suggest that we look at the roundtable as something to
target and try to plan for that, look at their letter, so they're getting a response from us, and we
have a chance, a noticed meeting, to talk and talk with them. Does that sound good?
ROGER SHERMAN: Great.
SHONTEL LEWIS: My last question. You said a member of the CAC was here? Where are you?
Hi. Welcome. Thanks for being here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. OK. Brandeberry-McKenna, are you next?
JULIE MCKENNA: Hi, it's Julie McKenna here for Brandeberry-McKenna Public Affairs. And
just a couple of things to highlight from our report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just need to move it closer.
JULIE MCKENNA: We met with representative Chris Hansen, who's a member of the Joint
Budget Committee, to talk about transportation issues. You all may recall, he has been very active
in looking for alternative means to find additional moneys for transportation, approximately $350
million, to cover bonds to help with the financial deficit in the transportation sector. We invited
him to attend the RTD Board meeting in December to discuss with you all kind of the vision he's
looking for and to make that connection, and he's very excited to be here. And he and Senator
Moreno will both be attending the meeting in December.
Additionally, we've been attending the 239 Task Force meeting. That's the bill that asked CDOT
to convene a stakeholder meeting to meet with stakeholders to address the impacts of emerging
technologies and changes in business models on our roads and the funding for the roads. That has
become a monumental task. That committee has morphed into five subcommittees, all that have
to report back. And CDOT has to issue a report that would recommend fees to help fund these
changes and methods to address environmental impacts and increase efficiencies, all by November
1. So a lot of meetings to cover and things to be done. But we will keep you apprised of that
progress as well. And Megan has a couple-MEGAN WAGNER: This is Megan. As if you haven't seen the paper today, the special session is
not going to happen. I think President Garcia announced it on Twitter. The governor thought a
couple of days before that he decided that they just weren't going to do it. I think there was division
even within the Democratic caucus about whether it was a good idea. I don't think it was just a
Democrat or a Republican thing, is my understanding from talking to legislators.
We as BBMK have been meeting with a bunch of different groups-- DRCOG, Conservation
Colorado, CML, and CCI-- to just kind of see what they're looking at as far as transportation
proposals. And just continuing to meet with those folks and make sure that they know that we

always want to be engaged. And I think RTD-- this Board has been doing a great job of getting
out there and making sure that everyone knows that we want to be at the table for every
conversation about transportation.
And the other thing, which I have already mentioned before, but just a reminder that on October
28 at 9:00 AM, we're going to go before the TLRC for our update. We really hope that Board
members can come. As this TLRC, there's some new folks on it. So it'd be a great way to kind of
show how active RTD has been, and really would appreciate the Board participation. And that's it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Questions? Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, regarding Representative Hansen and potentially in running bills to
increase or create or add fees to fund bonding-- apparently that's the route he's going, instead of
going to the voters is what it sounds like, because voters have not passed that. So now we're going
to create fees. That's his intent. It's what I read here, right?
JULIE MCKENNA: And I think that's a great thing to discuss with him when he comes before the
Board. Some of the things he has mentioned have been characterized as fees. I don't know for sure
if that's the route they would go without going to the voters or not. He's thrown a lot of things at
the wall for people to consider and get feedback on. I don't think he's settled on anything in
particular. But I think that's a great discussion point to have with him.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I look forward to that discussion with him. Has he mentioned any
specific fees?
JULIE MCKENNA: He has. Some of the things that he has thrown out there, air quality, maybe a
fee on fuel for air quality. An electric vehicle fee. Certainly they've talked about transportation
network company fees, maybe there's something there. And I think the 239 Task Force is also
looking at that. They also are looking at the fees that we currently charge for out-of-state plates
and the registration cliff that goes down as your cars get older. Those are all things that they're
evaluating the impacts of on our fee structures for funding transportation.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you very much. I'm glad both Hansen and Moreno
will be coming in to visit us. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I'll just ask, Director Folska, are you there? Do you have any
questions? Nope? Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Hi Mike,
you're next. Is it possible that you could send us a calendar invite for October 28 at 9:00 AM?
MEGAN WAGNER: Yep, I'm happy to do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be-- oh, I don't know how the Board office reacts to that. You
might have to send it to our mom, and then she might send it to us.

MEGAN WAGNER: I will follow proper protocol.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's what I was about. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll ask real quick-- and not looking for a long explanation-- but you met
with DRCOG and Conservation Colorado and TCI. What are you learning?
MEGAN WAGNER: So with DRCOG, we were just kind of following up on the discussions on
the empowered MPO, and just kind of making sure that whatever they're looking to do, that RTD
is at the table. Which I know-- I'm sure Roger is doing. I know General Manager Genova has been
at the table. But we want it to come from all sides. Because I just don't want them to not think of
us as we're part of the lead team to be talking to.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Roger?
ROGER SHERMAN: Just to add something to that. Representatives from the Metro Mayors
Caucus will be here at this committee meeting in October to present their thoughts and get some
feedback, initial feedback, on the enhanced MPO concept.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Anything else? I think you've already asked your
question, right? You're still set. OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: What is enhanced MPO? Thank you.
ROGER SHERMAN: You'll find out in October. It's basically an idea to provide more powers to
MPOs that would include the ability to do funding.
[MULTIPLE SPEAKERS SAYING "MPO"]
MPO.
LYNN GUISSINGER: DRCOG.
ROGER SHERMAN: DRCOG.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There are five MPOs in Colorado, and ours is DRCOG.
ROGER SHERMAN: Metropolitan Planning Organizations. But we lovingly call it DRCOG here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Lubow, what that means is giving unelected officials in
Metropolitan Planning Organizations the right to assess taxes. And DRCOG. So it's adding another
layer of government into the transportation question. That's what enhanced MPO concept is.
JUDY LUBOW: --your interpretation.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you have a question? I mean, that's fine, I'm glad, I just didn't know if
I should move on to Chair Tisdale.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, but I believe that was one of the articles that we had, so not just my
impression, but that was-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it's an early stage. It's just one discussion. And as Roger Sherman
said, we have-- I think its Jackie Millay and maybe somebody else coming in October to speak to
this and explain to us what it is. But everybody's looking for transportation money after the
propositions passed. And that's just one of the options. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just having been an officer of DRCOG,
I do want to point out. DRCOG consists of elected officials who are appointed by their particular
elected body to serve on the Board of DRCOG, which consists of 58 jurisdictions, eight counties,
and 50 municipalities that operates a district roughly the size of the state of Connecticut. And it is
not a tax levying organization. It does, however, distribute tax dollars that come back to Colorado
from the federal government. And that's its principal job, along with being the area agency on
aging. So I just offer that footnote for clarification as to the role of the Denver Regional Council
of Governments, DRCOG. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else? OK. Mike.
MICHAEL DINO: All right. Well, greetings. It's Mike Dino from Squire Patton Boggs. And as
we sit here, Congress is out of session until after Labor Day. But they did get a lot of things done
before they decided to leave Washington. An important thing for this Board following the credit
risk premium related to your RRIF loan, my colleague Patty Doersch worked very closely with
two US Senate offices to have legislation introduced by Senator Gardner and Senator Bennett that
would mandate the US Department of Transportation Secretary to pay back all loans that meet
their criteria of having fulfilled their repayment.
So that's another escalation in this effort to get your money back. And that legislation-- it's hard to
speculate early on what its viability is, but to have bipartisan support in the Senate is helpful. And
it also lays down a marker that maybe put that legislation into other legislation that might
ultimately get passed by Congress. So that's a good development.
RTD did receive a grant for electric buses and the support for those buses to the tune of 2.6 million.
So it's nice to get some of the grant money. You're one of 38 successful applicants that was able
to receive that money. So congratulations.
The Senate, their Environment and Public Works Committee, did kick off the reauthorization for
the 2021 transportation authorization. They did pass a bill. They didn't pass anything to figure out
how to pay for it, but that's left up to another committee. And it's just one committee of the US
Senate. It may get a full hearing in the fall in the full US Senate, but the House still has to act. And
the current authorization, the FAST Act, doesn't expire until 2020 of next year, September 30. So
we've got some time on that.

And one last positive note that wasn't in the report you received. The US House and Senate, as
well as the President, agreed to the fiscal year 2020 budget framework. So that's good. That doesn't
mean all the appropriations will be passed in time for next fiscal year to start on October 1, but a
number of them should pass. We'll see a continuing resolution. We shouldn't see a government
shutdown.
Certainly the tragedies over the weekend though, and if they do get into some discussion and some
back and forth and some disagreement on how to deal with issues related to the violence, it could
endanger some of the appropriations. But no shut down is anticipated at this point. So that's my
report for this month. And Sherry, you've got something.
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Just a side note. This is Sherry Ellebracht. Congressman Perlmutter is
working in the House on the credit risk premium. So in addition to our senators introducing the
bill, Congressman Perlmutter is also working on the House side. And also for the grant that we
received for $2.6 million, our senators and our congressional delegation, they did write letters of
support. And I really think that helped make a difference in us being one of the chosen ones to get
the money that we ask for. So they're working hard on our behalf back in DC. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, that was great. That was a very competitive grant, it
sounded like. So it was really great. Just a real quick question. You went into some of this in your
report. It could be not a real quick question, but I'm not asking for a real long-- this is the highway
portion of the transportation bill that just came out of committee. Is that right?
MICHAEL DINO: Yes, correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And so they would need a transit portion and a couple of others. Those all
come from different committees, and then have to go up to the whole House. It's banking.
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Banking, does transit.
MICHAEL DINO: Yeah, banking does transit. And then of course, I think-- I'm trying to
remember what committee would deal with the funding part. But another committee deals with
the funding. And then of course, in the House. It's the Transportation Infrastructure Committee
that would kick it off over there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And there's something working its way through there as well, or-MICHAEL DINO: No, not yet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right.
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: We don't want to get too far ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Any other questions? Great. Thank you. That's great. All righty.
Other matters. We're through with our updates. Anybody have anything to add? Our next meeting
date is October 8. As Roger Sherman said, we'll have representatives from Metro Mayors Caucus

to talk to us about the EMPOs and other things that they're working on. And this meeting is
adjourned.
SHELLY COOK: Five minutes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Five minutes. We'll be back. Thank you, Sherry. Good.

