1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
July 25, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:20 PM
5:12 PM
5:23 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:16 PM
5:32 PM
5:29 PM
5:27 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Absent
Present

5:25 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:31 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Absent

5:31 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:17 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were thirteen (13) members present at roll call.
Directors Mihalik and Walker were absent.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Phil Eberl, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Bob Grado, Robin McIntosh
Jr., John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader,
Allen Miller, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jim Rhodes, Richard Rost,
Lindsey Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer,
George Sweeney, Mark Tieman, Tanzania Trout, Bill Van Meter,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Genene Duran, William Gross, Chris Nevitt, Joe Triplett, Gary Van
Dorn

Retiree Awards
Special Recognition – 2017 APTA International Rail Rodeo
Rail Rodeo Operator Team Competition (RTD – 16th Place)
Robert Dennis
Derrick Shaw, Jr.
Maintenance Team Competition (RTD – 8th Place)
Randall Lovegrove
George Sweeney
Chair Hoy said that one of the best parts of the evening is when the Board recognizes
retires. He noted that there were no retirees for the month of July, but stated that there
was an APTA International Rail Rodeo winner that would be recognized.
Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, thanked the Board for the
opportunity to recognize RTD’s APTA International Rail Rodeo winners. He said that it
was an extremely tight race as always, and while RTD did not get the top award, the
participants did extremely well. He added that the operators were in an unfamiliar vehicle,
so they had to learn how to use it before the rodeo. He noted that the four members from
RTD, both the operator team and maintenance team, attended. He remarked that George
Sweeney from the maintenance team, was in attendance that evening, and they did an
amazing job, finishing in 8th place.
Phil Eberl, General Superintendent, said that Mr. Sweeney had been to the APTA
International Rodeo thirteen times, winning first place and overall in Miami, and winning
overall in Vancouver. He commented that getting to the rodeo is an accomplishment in of
itself and he was very proud of Mr. Sweeney.
Mr. Emmons commented that next year RTD will have the home field advantage, and staff
is looking forward to hosting the APTA International Rail Rodeo next year.

Chair Hoy thanked all of the APTA International Rail Rodeo participants.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated public participation was open to anyone that wanted to address the
Board and reminded the audience that each speaker was allowed three minutes. He noted
that no speakers were signed up and no one came forward to speak either.

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Chair Hoy remarked that Director Menten had requested a change to one of her
statements in the Operations and Customer Service meeting minutes and noted that there
were no other changes.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Francone stated that the Board should see a survey emailed to them on
Friday and asked that the Directors fill out the survey and return it quickly. She remarked
that this is one of the most important things that the Board does all year, and their input is
critical in this process. She noted that there will be some changes to the format, and
there is an option to include their name if they would like to be identified. She added that
the approval of the General Manager’s 2018 Core and Task goals is item E under the
unanimous consent agenda.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 27, 2017
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of June 27, 2017.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Williams) and 0 against. Directors Mihalik and
Walker were absent.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Williams
Ken Mihalik, Jeff Walker

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy provided the flowing report:
Attended Events and Awards
 July 10th – Mayor Hancock of Denver held a State of the City address.
Director Williams attended.
 July 13th
o A Rider Appreciation Event was held on at Flatiron Station in
Broomfield, and Director Lubow attended.
o Also that day, RTD the and US 36 Mayors and Commissioners
Coalition held a joint Northwest Area Stakeholders Meeting in
Louisville. Directors Lubow, Sisk, and Solano were in attendance.
 July 15th – RTD held an Employee Appreciation Event at Elitch Gardens.
Several Directors attended that day and were happy to see that so many
employees were able to enjoy the day with their families.
 July 19th – Boulder’s Rider Appreciation Event was held at the Table Mesa
Station, and Director Lubow attended.
 July 21st – The Arvada Chamber of Commerce hosted its Third Friday
Breakfast regarding the State of Transportation. Director Francone attended.
 July 22nd-25th – Directors Tisdale and Walker attended the APTA Transit
Board Member and Board Support Conference in Chicago.
Ongoing and Upcoming Events
 Director Walker is leaving from Chicago tomorrow to attend a Leadership
APTA Committee meeting in Vancouver, British Columbia, from July 26th29th.
 DRMAC’s Transit and Accessibility Task Force will be meeting in this room
on August 2nd.
 The Local Coordinating Council for Jefferson County will meet at the Wheat
Ridge Senior Center on August 3rd.
 Also on August 3rd, a Rider Appreciation Event will be held at the US 36 &
Broomfield Station, and Director Lubow will be there.









X.

The Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce will be holding its State of the
City Address on August 8th at the Hyatt Regency in Denver. Directors
Tisdale and Williams will be attending.
The Jefferson County Transportation Action and Advocacy Group
(JEFFTAAG) will be meeting at the Jefferson County Courts &
Administration Building on August 9th.
The North Metro Rail Line Elected Officials Briefing will be held at RTD’s
North Metro Offices on August 10th.
The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group will host a
breakfast on August 11th.
The RTD/DRCOG Meeting will be held on August 15th.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:




















Spoke at the 16th Street Mall Project Workshop on Wednesday, June 28th.
Met with Colleen Sklar, Executive Director of the Partnership of the Manitoba
Capital Region, Canada on Wednesday, June 28th.
Attended the Mobility Choice Board meeting on Wednesday, June 28th.
Attended the City of Arvada quarterly update on Thursday, June 29th.
Attended RTD’s Division barbecues on Thursday, June 29th and Friday, June 30th.
Attended Denver Mayor Hancock’s State of the City Address on Monday, July 10th.
Met with the Community College of Aurora, and Directors Broom and Folska on
Tuesday, July 11th.
Attended the Northwest Rail (US 36 MCC) meeting on Thursday, July 13th.
Had a conference call with the Denver Transit Partners (DTP) Board on Friday, July
14th.
Had a conference call with DTP Board Chair David Rushton on Friday, July 14th.
Attended RTD’s Employee Appreciation Event at Elitch Gardens on Saturday, July
15th.
Welcomed US DOT Career Day Discovery participants on Monday, July 17th.
Attended MMC’s Transportation Committee on Monday, July 17th.
Attended the DRCOG RTC Committee meeting on Tuesday, July 18th.
Met with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Headquarters and Regional
Staff, Federal Transportation Administration (FTA), and the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission (CPUC) on Wednesday, July 19th.
Had a conference call with the DTP Board on Thursday, July 20th.
Met with DTP Board Chair David Rushton on Tuesday, July 25th.
Met with the DTP Board on Tuesday, July 25th.

General Manager Genova thanked the Board for the Employee Appreciation Event. He said
that, as employees spread out to other divisions, they do not get an opportunity to see
their friends and this event allowed them to do that.
General Manager Genova remarked that RTD is still operating under a waiver from the
FRA, which expires on Sunday, July 30, 2017. He said that on Monday, staff submitted a
petition to have the B Line removed from the waiver since the B Line has one private
crossing that is not under the purview of the FRA. He noted that seemed to be a
reasonable approach, and staff expects to hear back from the FRA by the end of the
week. He explained that the University of Colorado A Line waiver is currently being
developed by staff, and if the FRA approves the changes made to the technical document,
DTP believes that they will be in compliance with federal requirements. He added that
there is also the CPUC order, and they have asked that the at-grade attendants remain in
place until RTD gets through the final CPUC process. He noted that currently, there is a
lot of momentum, and staff is eager to hear with the FRA has to say.
General Manager Genova remarked that the $1.00 hourly wage increase for rail and bus
operators had been implemented and will go into effect on July 30, 2017, and the
increase would show up on their August paychecks.
General Manager Genova added that Lacy Bell, Corridor Planning Manager, had been
accepted as RTD’s nominee for Leadership APTA and said that she would represent RTD
well.
Director Folska said that it was encouraging to hear that RTD is making great strides with
the University of Colorado A Line and B Line. She noted that the people she meets are
excited for the G Line and asked what the plan was for when things do not go right.
General Manager Genova said that things will go well. He remarked that staff needs to
get through this week first to see what the FRA’s response will be. He commented that, if
staff needs to do something else based on the FRA’s recommendations, they will work on
that.
Director Deadwyler asked about the quiet zones along the University of Colorado A Line,
and inquired when they would be implemented. She said that constituents in her district
are miserable and asked if the horn decibels could be lowered.
General Manager Genova remarked that the goal is to get the University of Colorado A
Line certified for quiet zones. He stated that, once RTD is certified through the FRA and
CPUC, the quiet zones can be implemented. He noted that the decibel level is a regulatory

requirement, and the horns are in the 90 decibel range. He remarked that other methods
could possibly be used, such as wayside horns, which do not have as big of an impact.
Chair Hoy stated that he lives five miles from the B Line and he can hear the train from his
house.
Director Lubow discussed the Mobility Choice Board meeting and reminded the General
Manager that the RTD Board had asked for copies of the minutes from that meeting. She
added that she would also like to see the legal documents regarding Mobility Choice’s
policies and priorities.
Director Francone noted that she had asked staff for a list of the participants on the
Mobility Choice Board and she had not received it yet. She then inquired about the
University of Colorado A Line waivers and how they affected the G Line.
General Manager Genova said that staff has regular conversations with the CPUC to
advance the G Line testing. He noted that RTD had received limited testing permissions
from the FRA and CPUC and all of those tests had been completed. He stated that the
only remaining testing that requires approval is for the crossings and the wireless
crossings. He commented that once the FRA approves the criteria document on the
timing, RTD will request permission to complete the remaining testing for the G Line. He
noted that the CPUC wants to address the University of Colorado A Line amendments first
then work on the G Line, whereas staff would like them to be done in parallel.
Director Francone remarked that Director Anderson gave a stunning presentation at a
meeting with the City of Arvada and everyone was interested to hear about what was
going on in their community. She said that the presentation, along with comments from
the General Manager, will reassure the public that RTD is not sitting back and doing
nothing.
Director Williams asked if the Mobility Choice Board meetings were open to the public.
General Manager Genova said yes and added that the Mobility Choice Board is still
working through the draft bylaws that will memorialize open meetings.
Director Williams asked that the RTD Board be notified beforehand so that they could
attend.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, remarked that the Memorandum of Understanding says
that they will operate in the spirit of the Colorado Open Meetings Law.

Director Folska commented that Arvada cannot wait for their commuter rail service to
begin.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy suggested that if there were any questions or need for discussion of an agenda
item, a Director should request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda.
Director Folska asked that the Contract with INIT for Automatic Passenger Counters for
Light Rail Vehicles be moved to Recommended Actions.
Director Menten said that she would like the Approval of General Manager's 2018 Goals
moved to Recommended Actions.
Chair Hoy, seeing no other comments, asked for a motion to approve items A through C.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
items A-C on the unanimous consent agenda.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Williams) and 0 against. Directors Mihalik and
Walker were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Williams
Ken Mihalik, Jeff Walker

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
A.
Construction Award for IFB 37-DH 001. Customer Care Call Center and Treasury
Repair Facility.
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to
AD Miller Services in the amount not-to-exceed of $5,627,730 for the New Customer

Care Call Center and Treasury Repair Facility project. Funding for this contract is included
in the 2017 Amended Budget. It is further recommended that the General Manager or his
designee be authorized to issue contract amendments in the total amount not-to-exceed
the remaining approved project budget of $845,393 as needed.
B.
Enter into a Contract with RouteMatch for MDT and On-Board Software for Accessa-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for computerized Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) and
onboard software with RouteMatch Software, Inc. (RouteMatch) (Contract Number
17DH025) for an amount not to exceed $1,800,000. The price includes MDTs,
software, implementation and three years of extended support.
C.

Resolution to Approve Refinancing for Interest Savings

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the
execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and related documents
in connection with the partial refinancing of the 2010A and 2015A Certificates of
Participation.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.
Enter into a Contract with INIT for Automatic Passenger Counters for Light Rail
Vehicles
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for purchase, installation and maintenance of Automatic
Passenger Counters (APCs) with INIT Innovations in Transportation, Inc. (INIT) (Contract
Number 17DH026) for an amount not to exceed $2,400,000 and transfer up to $950,000
from project 10444 (Mobile Data Terminals) to project 10345 (New Automatic Passenger
Counter).
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve
the Contract with INIT for Automatic Passenger
Counters for Light Rail Vehicles.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska said that to her this passenger counter seems
like redundant technology and asked why RTD needed this
service.

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer/Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, said that the answer lies in the
fact that in terms of rail the fare purchase process is separate
and apart from the boarding process. He said that the purpose
of the Automatic Passenger Counters (APCs) is to be able to
count the number of boardings assigned to the various routes.
He added that the APCs will allow staff to better understand
what services people are using.
Director Folska commented that she would be a no vote for
this item. She said that there is other technology available
that would generate income instead of spending it.
Mr. Abel added that in addition, the APCs will also monitor the
on-time performance of rail.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Williams)
and 1 opposed (Folska). Directors Mihalik and
Walker were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [12 TO 1]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Williams
Claudia Folska
Ken Mihalik, Jeff Walker

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
E.

Approval of General Manager's 2018 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approves the General Manager’s goals for 2018 as
defined in the attached General Manager’s Performance Evaluation document.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
the General Manager’s 2018 Goals.

Director Williams seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Menten said that in the past, as a member of the
committee, she tried to set a higher level for exceeds
expectations. She stated that in reality, nothing has changed
in this proposal from previous years and at the end of the day,
this is gauged to decide how much of a performance bonus
the General Manager will be awarded. She stated that since
this evaluation is tied to a monetary gift, the expectations
should be set to a higher bar, so she would be a no vote for
this item.
Director Francone stated that she was disappointed to hear
that Director Menten’s concerns were not addressed
beforehand. She added that the entire Board was welcome to
attend the General Manager Performance and Oversight
Committee, and if a Director wanted to speak with her, her
phone was always on. She added that she was disappointed
to know that Director Menten was not pleased with the
recommendation.
Director Menten stated that in the past she did not see enough
change in the committee and added that she did not know
what else could have been done.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Williams) and
1 opposed (Menten).
Directors Mihalik and
Walker were absent.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [12 TO 1]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Williams
Natalie Menten
Ken Mihalik, Jeff Walker

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no Executive Session.

XIV. Old Business
Director Folska asked for someone to explain to her how much money in reimbursements
the District receives from Medicaid.
General Manager Genova stated that there were zero reimbursements.
Mr. Abel added that, while there were no reimbursements, Medicaid has purchased fare
media from RTD for their clientele.
General Manager Genova said that staff would have to research those figures.
Director Folska asked that those numbers be sent to the Board.
Director Anderson remarked that Arvada has a vibrant Olde Town that is full of business
and has been a Transit Oriented Development (TOD) even before RTD had transit. She
stated that it is a great community and it has one of the lowest crime rates in the metro
area.

XV.

New Business
Director Menten asked when the Board would receive a list of all of RTD’s property
holdings as she wanted to know everything that RTD had.
General Manager Genova said that the surplus properties list would include all properties
with no transit plan. He then inquired if Director Menten wanted a list of all RTD owned
properties, not just surplus.
Director Menten said yes. She added that she wanted to know about everything and said
that the Board could go through the list to determine what properties could be sold.
General Manager Genova said that staff would research the available format of the
information and will inform the Board as to what kind of effort would be required to
compile a list.
Chair Hoy said that the list Director Menten is requesting actually exists because there is a
list of over 500 properties.
Director Francone commented that the Board received an update from the General
Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee with the core and task goals

for 2017. She said that the information would help the Directors complete their surveys
and added that answers such as “Not Applicable”, or “I don’t know” were not appropriate
responses.
Chair Hoy commented that the next three Tuesdays were busy for the Board. He said that
the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) workshop would be on August 1st and the APE will
be problematic this year. He added that it would be beneficial for everyone if they could
attend. He added that the SANS Cyber Security training would be on August 8th and he
asked everyone to please plan on attending. He further noted that there would be a
community engagement event on August 15th and encouraged the Board to attend that as
well.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:42 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

