Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
March 23, 2021
5:30 PM
REMOTE MEETING
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 817 2347 9424#
Webinar Passcode: 405134#

I.

Call to Order

II.

Recommended Action
A.
RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability Committee’s
Legislative Recommendations
For the Board to adopt a resolution in support of House Bill 21-1186 titled CONCERNING
RELIEVING
THE
REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT
OF
STATUTORY
RESTRICTIONS RELATED TO THE DISTRICT'S OPERATIONS.

III.

Other Matters
A.

IV.

Subregional Service Councils

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting
Accountability Committee’s Legislative Recommendations

Committee Meeting Date:
March 23, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
March 23, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board to adopt a resolution in support of House Bill 21-1186 titled CONCERNING RELIEVING
THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT OF STATUTORY RESTRICTIONS RELATED TO THE
DISTRICT'S OPERATIONS.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
On June 16, 2020, the RTD Board of Directors unanimously approved a Proposal creating the
independent Accountability Committee in collaboration with the Governor of Colorado and the
Transportation Chairs of the General Assembly. The purpose of the Committee is to provide an
independent and objective analysis of RTD's operations. In January 2021, the Accountability Committee
issued a Preliminary Report that made initial legislative recommendations for consideration by the
Colorado General Assembly. RTD staff worked closely with the Accountability Committee and the bill
sponsors to provide information and technical input, resulting in HB21-1186 .
DISCUSSION
HB21-1186 proposes several amendments to RTD’s enabling statute in order to provide RTD with
greater flexibility in its operations and revenue generation, and more meaningfully track and report on its
cost efficiency of services provided.
HB21-1186 removes the cap on the amount of all vehicular service RTD can allow to be provided by
third parties under competitive contracts and retains the 58% cap on the amount of fixed route bus
service that may be provided through such contracts. Additionally, the proposed legislation expands the
types of entities RTD may contract with to include non-profit organizations and local governments.
These amendments provide RTD with more flexibility to implement cost-effective mobility solutions
when appropriate.
Second, HB21-1186 repeals the farebox recovery ratio which currently requires that 30% of RTD’s
operating costs be funded by revenues collected. The amendments require RTD to include in its annual
financial reports information on operating costs, ridership numbers, and operating costs divided by
ridership as a measure of cost efficiency of it services.
Third, HB21-1186 eliminates prohibitions on parking reductions associated with residential and
commercial developments at RTD transfer facilities.
Lastly, HB21-1186 removes restrictions related to RTD’s ability to charge fees and manage parking at
RTD parking facilities.

Packet Pg. 2

2.A

FINANCIAL IMPACT
RTD staff has determined that there are no negative financial impacts as a result of this legislation.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

20210303_DraftResolution-ACBill

•

20210316_DraftAmendResol_HB21-1186 (DOC)

•

HB21-1186_ATU_RTD Proposed Amendments_03_12_2021

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Melanie Snyder, General Counsel
Approved by:
Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 3

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2021
Supporting House Bill 2021-___ concerning relieving the Regional Transportation
District of statutory restrictions related to the District’s operations.
WHEREAS, on June 16, 2020, the RTD Board of Directors unanimously approved a
Proposal creating the independent Accountability Committee in collaboration with
the Governor of Colorado and the Transportation Chairs of the General Assembly
for the purpose of providing recommendations for improvement to the operations
of and statutes related to RTD.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-___ reflects the Accountability Committee’s
recommendations for certain amendments to the RTD enabling statute to relieve
RTD of certain statutory restrictions related to RTD’s operations.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-___ expands the types of entities with which RTD may
contract to include non-profit organizations and local governments, removes a cap
on the amount of vehicular service RTD can allow to be provided by third parties,
and retains the 58% cap on the amount of fixed route bus service that may be
provided through such contracts.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-___ repeals the farebox recovery ratio requirements
and requires RTD to annually report information on its operating costs, ridership
numbers, and operating costs divided by ridership as measure of the cost
efficiency of its services.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-___ repeals a limitation on developments that would
reduce parking at a facility or result in a competitive disadvantage to private
businesses near the facility.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-___ repeals limitations on RTD’s authority to charge
fees and manage parking at district parking facilities.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the RTD Board of Directors takes a
position in support of House Bill 2021-__.

1
Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: 20210303_DraftResolution-ACBill (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability Committee’s Legislative

2.A.a

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED by the Board of Directors of the Regional
Transportation District this 9th day of March, 2021.

____________________________
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chair of the Board

____________________________
Vince Buzek
Secretary

2
Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: 20210303_DraftResolution-ACBill (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability Committee’s Legislative

2.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2021
Supporting House Bill 2021-1186 concerning relieving the Regional Transportation
District of statutory restrictions related to the District’s operations.
WHEREAS, on June 16, 2020, the RTD Board of Directors unanimously approved a
Proposal creating the independent Accountability Committee in collaboration with
the Governor of Colorado and the Transportation Chairs of the General Assembly
for the purpose of providing recommendations for improvement to the operations
of and statutes related to RTD.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-1186 reflects the Accountability Committee’s
recommendations for certain amendments to the RTD enabling statute to relieve
RTD of certain statutory restrictions related to RTD’s operations.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-1186 expands the types of entities with which RTD
may contract to include non-profit organizations and local governments., removes a
cap on the amount of vehicular service RTD can allow to be provided by third
parties, and retains the 58% cap on the amount of fixed route bus service that
may be provided through such contracts.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-1186, with proposed amendments mutually agreed to
and proposed by Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO and Lance
Longenbohn, President Amalgamated Transit Union No. 1001 on March 12, 2021,
would retain the 58% cap on contracted services and update statutory terms
consistent with modern transit terminology regarding platform time.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-1186 repeals the farebox recovery ratio requirements
and requires RTD to annually report information on its operating costs, ridership
numbers, and operating costs divided by ridership as measure of the cost
efficiency of its services.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-1186 repeals a limitation on developments that would
reduce parking at a facility or result in a competitive disadvantage to private
businesses near the facility.
WHEREAS, House Bill 2021-1186 repeals limitations on RTD’s authority to charge
fees and manage parking at district parking facilities.

1
Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: 20210316_DraftAmendResol_HB21-1186 (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability Committee’s

2.A.b

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the RTD Board of Directors takes a
position in support of House Bill 2021-1186.

2
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 20210316_DraftAmendResol_HB21-1186 (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability Committee’s

2.A.b

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED by the Board of Directors of the Regional
Transportation District this 9th day of March, 2021.

____________________________
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chair of the Board

____________________________
Vince Buzek
Secretary

3
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 20210316_DraftAmendResol_HB21-1186 (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability Committee’s

2.A.b

Attachment: HB21-1186_ATU_RTD Proposed Amendments_03_12_2021 (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability

2.A.c

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: HB21-1186_ATU_RTD Proposed Amendments_03_12_2021 (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability

2.A.c

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: HB21-1186_ATU_RTD Proposed Amendments_03_12_2021 (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability

2.A.c

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: HB21-1186_ATU_RTD Proposed Amendments_03_12_2021 (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability

2.A.c

Packet Pg. 12

Regional
Transportation
District

House Bill 2021-1186 Proposed Amendments

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO
80202
303.299.6000

RTD agrees with the Amalgamated Transit Union 1001’s proposed amendments dated
March 11, 2021, with two additional adjustments to update the statutory language
consistent with modern transit terminology. Specifically, RTD recommends the following
additional amendments:
•
•
•

Page 2, lines 15-16, delete “vehicle hours” and “vehicle hour equivalents” and
replace with “platform time” and “platform time equivalents” respectively
Page 3, lines 13-14, delete “vehicle hour equivalents” and replace with “platform
time equivalents”
Page 3, line 15, delete “vehicle hours” and replace with “platform time”

Packet Pg. 13
rtd-denver.com

Attachment: HB21-1186_ATU_RTD Proposed Amendments_03_12_2021 (4489 : RTD Board’s Position on HB21-1186 Reflecting Accountability

2.A.c

3.A.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
March 23, 2021

Subregional Service Councils

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Nicole Carey, Administrative Specialist
Approved by:
Authorized:

Packet Pg. 14

3.A.1.a

Proposal
Revise RTD’s transit service planning process by establishing subregional service
councils. Service councils will have responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for the RTD Board’s consideration. The RTD Accountability
Committee believes the introduction of this concept will:
• improve collaboration between RTD and the communities it serves.
• increase opportunities for public input through locally-accessible forums.
• advance social equity goals by developing community-based transit plans
that identify transportation and service gaps, especially in low income and
minority neighborhoods.
• promote innovative mobility solutions at a local level consistent with the
RTD Board’s overall service goals and objectives.
• provide an opportunity to address geographic equity and rebuild trust and
transparency with constituents.
Membership
The RTD Accountability Committee recommends service councils be representative of
the community-at-large. Service council membership shall include:
Elected representatives from each city/town/county within each service council
district.
Stakeholders representing social, economic, financial, and environmental equity
interests.
Transit Users who live, work, or attend university within the service council
district.
Geography
The RTD Accountability Committee recommends RTD establish a workgroup of regional
stakeholders to comprehensively evaluate the following two service council boundary
concepts to ascertain the best fit for the Denver region. The workgroup shall consider
the role and purpose of the service councils, community cohesion and RTD staff
resource requirements in its analysis.
1. County Boundaries: The RTD service area encompasses wholly or partially
Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Broomfield, Denver, Douglas, and Jefferson
counties. The establishment of service councils based on this pre-determined
geo-political boundary would appear logical since local governments residing
in the same county already have a familiarity with each other. Additionally,

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

DRCOG Subregional Service Council Recommendation

county-based service councils would be consistent with the already
established DRCOG subregional forums which are utilized for transportation
planning and funding decisions.
2. Travel Shed: A valuable tool for visualizing and analyzing mobility patterns. In
the Denver region, known travel behavior makes this concept a viable option
particularly if fewer service districts is the objective.
RTD Resource Allocation
RTD Accountability Committee acknowledges the critical role RTD plays in fulfilling the
mobility needs of Denver area residents. Understandably, taxpayers are interested in
having more information about how their tax dollars are being used to provide an
equitable transit system and services. As a result, the RTD Accountability Committee
recommends RTD develop and submit to subregional service councils an annual report
illustrating how the revenues generated in each subregion are used to provide
transportation “value” to the residents of the subregion.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

3.A.1.a

3.A.1.a

Social, economic, financial, and environmental equity is a paramount consideration for
the RTD Accountability Committee. The Committee will consider the needs of
communities of concern, including but not limited to minority, low-income, individuals
with disabilities, older adult, and veteran populations. Effort will be made through the
Committee’s work to ensure benefits are shared across the RTD service area and that no
one group bears a larger burden of environmental or financial impacts.
Actions that include spatial and other forms of analysis, community engagement, and
consulting experts will be used at appropriate times to inform the work and final
recommendations of the Committee.
Operationalizing Equity in the Deliberation of the Committee and
Subcommittees
Each subcommittee will engage community organizations with expertise in equity such
as the Center for Community Wealth Building, the Denver Institute of Equity and
Reconciliation, and Mile High Connects during their initial deliberations as part of the
research phase. During the formation and consideration of issues and policy options,
an equality lens will be applied. This lens should include the following questions:
1. How could this recommendation benefit or burden communities of concern? Is
there likely to be an increase or decrease in equity?
a. How are we defining benefit and burden?
b. How do we measure this impact?
2. Could this recommendation impact specific communities or geography more
than others? If so, which communities and how?
a. What are the demographics of the most impacted areas?
b. Are neighborhoods equally required to help achieve the policy
recommendation? If not, does this raise issues of equity and justice?
3. Could there be unintended consequences? If so, can they be mitigated?
4. Does this policy/strategy address historic, systemic, environmental, or
institutional barriers that have impacted this community?
DRCOG staff and/or the on-call consulting team will assist subcommittees and the
Committee to conduct appropriate equity assessments of draft recommendations. Draft
recommendations, along with the assessments, will be made available for public review
and input. Each subcommittee will consider the assessment and any input obtained
through public engagement before making final subcommittee recommendations to the
full committee.
The full committee will consider subcommittee recommendations and finalize draft
recommendations to bring to a public hearing. Input received from the public hearing
will be considered before the committee makes final recommendations. As needed,
dissenting opinions will also be included with the final recommendations.
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

RTD Accountability Committee
Equity Assessment Mission Statement

3.A.1.a

Proposal
Revise RTD’s transit service planning process by establishing subregional service
councils. Service councils will have responsibility for developing and recommending
“local” transit service plans for working jointly with RTD’s service planning to develop
recommendations for transit services in their areas of concern. for the RTD Board’s
consideration. The RTD Accountability Committee believes the introduction of this
concept will:
etc. And:
Membership
The RTD Accountability Committee recommends service councils be representative of
the community-at-large. Service council membership shall include:
Elected representatives from each city/town/county within each service council
district.
RTD board members whose Districts overlap
Stakeholders representing social, economic, financial, and environmental equity
interests.
Transit Users who live, work, or attend university within the service council district.

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

Comments Submitted by Director Cook

3.A.1.a

Generally
I think having this specifically be for service planning takes away some concerns
that I have for creating another level of bureaucracy. I joined some of our
outreach efforts for service planning that just happened last week and the lack
of turnout was disappointing. I think having a dedicated group who provides
feedback and insight could be really helpful.
On the other hand, RTD and our governance is already pretty hard for most
people to understand in the first place. I’m not sure adding a separate, quasiindependent entity is going to help vs. streamlining communication through
Directors. I think we really need to focus on simplifying things for people vs.
making them more complicated.
Membership
I have some concerns about how membership is chosen. First, elected officials
do not always represent the entire community and can sometimes speak for very
specific interest groups. Even on our own Board (me included), it can just be a
matter of who was able to make it through the process and being able to run
unopposed. When public officials are not compensated, it creates a substantial
barrier for those who need an income to survive and cannot afford to spend
their time and money running for public office and serving in public office. It
should be on the RTD Directors to have the relationships with public officials,
assisted or facilitated by staff/our lobbyists to ensure continuity when there’s
Director turnover. It should also be on Directors to have relationships with their
entire community (something I’m still working on as well!)
I believe that through an ongoing opportunity to provide feedback, something
like a QR code you can scan on the bus, this would allow more individuals to
give input. We should be constantly seeking feedback, not just around service
changes. Perhaps a survey option on the app itself that’s always there?
Prompting people when they purchase a ticket? It’s possible this is already in the
app and we already are regularly collecting this data. It’s not something I’ve
used before as I’ve had student pass, then ecopass, now Board pass. Do we
include tweets, customer service calls, emails, constitutent outreach, etc. in this
process? If not, I think we should be looking at all feedback we get when
making decisions, regardless of how it is provided.
I have concerns about the “squeaky wheel” problem, when these groups would
meet, where these groups would meet, etc.

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

Comments Submitted by Director Dishell

While I know I mentioned above that it is great to have a dedicated group we
know will show up for service planning, I still have concerns about limiting the
amount of people who are a part of that process. How will the membership be
engaging the public? How will we hold them accountable to engaging the public?
I think there’s also room for reflection here on how we are (or aren’t) engaging
the public as Directors.
Geography
If we move forward, I am in favor of county based service councils. I believe this
also opens up an opportunity for greater alignment of efforts.
I’m not familiar with travel shed but based on its description it seems like a tool
we should be using no matter how we move forward.
RTD Resource Allocation
I am firmly opposed to this. I am open to hearing how this actually aligns with
RTD values. I think there’s also an important piece here of (i) understanding
what RTD’s values actually are and (ii) being aligned as a Board on RTD’s values.
For example, I look to our enabling legislation for our values and what guides my
work. Specifically, “public transportation services are provided to assist the
transit-dependent and the poor, to relieve congestion, and to minimize
automotive pollution” and “The Regional Transportation District will promote the
public health, safety, convenience, economy, and welfare of the residents of the
District and the State of Colorado.”
This portion of the plan takes away any notion of a regional system or regional
thought by placing an emphasis on I paid X so I must get X in return. This is
individualistic and I think we’d be shooting ourselves in the foot.
Separately, it seems like RTD is one of the only agencies or government
expenditures where people say I paid X so I should get exactly X in return.
That’s not quite how I believe society should function. This type of thinking also
seems to only apply to items like public transit, public housing, welfare, etc. It’s a
thinly veiled attack on the poor and unhoused. People bought into a regional
system, shouldn’t we be focusing on how we as a region can move forward vs.
each individualistic interest?
I firmly believe we need to be acting in everyone’s best interests, not just the
interests of those who can pay. I’m happy to be wrong on this, but, those who
have more money tend to buy more items. This would lead to a larger sales tax
revenue from those individuals or communities who have more money because
they are spending more money (theoretically in their subregion, but not
necessarily). I do not believe the quality of public transit you receive should be

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

3.A.1.a

so directly related to the amount of sales tax revenue you are able to generate.
There’s also the issue of not having a complete data set as sales and use tax is
not always tied to where people live. Do we track where each person lives?
Works? Their commute? Do we know how much of the sales tax revenue is from
individuals vs. large corporate purchases? If it is skewed towards corporate
purchases, should we really be making decisions based on corporate interests?
Last, this resource allocation piece just doesn’t seem to fit within the whole idea
of regional service planning. If the idea is to optimize service to best serve all
customers, then shouldn’t that be our focus? Not how much each community is
paying, what rides they are getting, how much a ride is being subsidized, etc.
Again, happy to engage with anyone on these topics and if individuals have resources
that may assist in my thought process and comments, please feel free to share them.
Separately, I would be open to the opportunity to work with any Directors on
establishing a Board policy for representing the agency on external bodies and (i) how
we solicit feedback from Board members, (ii) how we report that feedback to the
external bodies, and (iii) how the Board member reports information gained back to the
Board.

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

3.A.1.a

3.A.1.a

General Questions and comments:
What information would the subregional service council us to "develop and recommend
local transit service plans to the RTD Board"?
How does the Accountability Committee define "local"?
How has the council defined geographic equity?
Advocating for geographic equity conflicts with "advance social equity" as geographical
equity pertain to giving everyone the same while social equity a focus on our most
marginalized and oppressed communities. social equity and geographical equity conflict
thus we might want to determine which is most important and keep that one. Per the
Accountability Commitee's outlined beliefs
Membership:
This is concerning as elected representatives does not yield representation. I believe
the accountability is fine example of the absence of true regional representation.
What will be the process for selection? What will be the outreach? How will we ensure
true representation?
How much sway the service councils would have , and if that would comply with oneperson-one-vote. As I read the proposal, Lakeside -- population 8 as municipality with
The District gets as much representation as the City and County of Denver.
What are we solving for here? I assume a lack of participation if so, how does this
change or solve for that?
Might we explore funding NGOs to connect with communities?
I would suggest "transit users be prioritized, specifically our frontline workers and those
without alternative transit options.
I would suggest we remove "attend university" and add students generally.
Geography:
What is the purpose of determine what is a "best fit for the Denver region"? RTD is
regional created to provided regional transportation I am not following this emphasis.
Especially considering the lack of representation of Denver and the disproportionate
representation from the North.
What question are we solving here?
This could be yet another barrier to access for some communities, specifically lowincome communities, and communities of color. As we know that some communities
are better connected socially, politically and financial thus this is beneficial those

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

Comments Submitted by Director Lewis

geographically, what might this mean for lower income communities and communities
of color that have historically been left behind. intentionally or not.
I noticed Denver called out specifically in the recommendation, I am not sure I am
following what is hoped to be achieved.
RTD Resource Allocation:
How does one define transportation "value"?
What is the cost? Who would staff this? Who would have oversight? What does this
accomplish? How do provide taxpayers with accurate information?
I can imagine this getting a bit tricky in so that taxpayers might assume that the
amount that they pay is the amount of service to expect and that could not be further
from the truth.
RTD provides regional transit thus exploring the allocation of resources is not a duty I
could support from those depth of expertise needed to run larger transit.
I will close with I am not certain I understand how this recommendation will fit with
current RTD process. We have not yet determined our service standards (assuming
they might change during COVID where social distancing conflicts with how mass
transit is provided and intended.
The Accountability is not representative of the entire district and thus the
recommendation must be treated accordingly, as a recommendation from a portion of
our region not the Regional perspective.

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

3.A.1.a

3.A.1.a

First, here is a good definition of what an LCC is: Local Coordinating Councils | DRMAC
(drmac-co.org)
Then:
LCCs vary by county - each one has an individual flavor that reflects their individual area.
Examples:
In Clear Creek County, the mayors of the local towns come to the LCC meetings - as does
the head of the ski resort and the tourism department.
In Boulder, everyone who is anyone in human services comes to the LCC - housing folks,
parks'n'rec, food banks, and more
In Arapahoe, the LCC is part of the planning commission and the older adults department
In Jeffco, Lakewood Rides has been chairing the group for years; SRC hosts the meetings.
(you can talk about Denver partnering with your TMA)
Note: there is no LCC in Adams County because NATA (North Area Transportation
Alliance) serves the same purpose.
Most LCCs have been doing this work for over 10 years - they know who's who, what the
issues with transit are, and where the gaps are.
Why would anyone want to create another, newer, less "in touch" group?

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

Comments Submitted by Director Williams

3.A.1.a

Directors Guissinger and Whitmore,
I work with Director Williams regularly in DRMAC. She has asked several of the Local
Coordinating Council Chairs to contact you. I am currently the Chair of Transportation
Solutions Arapahoe County, the Arapahoe County Local Coordinating Council, and, as
such, I’m also an integral part of the Arapahoe Transportation Forum. In a previous life,
I worked frequently with the previous and current Directors of the Arapahoe County
Division of Infrastructure and Planning. I have known these folks for over 40 years! I’m
more than happy to bring up services to the Public Works Directors in my County.
TSAC meets every other month to discuss transportation issues in Arapahoe County and
the AC Transportation Forum does, as well. I’m not shy in speaking up in those
meetings to ask questions, make suggestions and comments about transportation
services in the County. As well, the Senior Resources person in the County is a member
of TSAC. TSAC has been in operation for eight years but just the past 3 months as a
designated non-profit.
TSAC works hard to better transit/transportation in our area and would be happy to
serve as a “sub-regional council” because that’s what we do. Various municipalities in
the County are also members of TSAC. Even Director Tisdale is a member of our group.
Our membership also consists of organizations that support the populations needing
transportation and some ride providers. Our meetings consist of learning about those
populations needing transportation solutions in our area.
If you would like to meet with us to explore solutions to the existing transportation
problems, we would be honored to have you attend. We are currently meeting via
Zoom. Our next meeting is 15 April, 9-10:30 am. I would be glad to include you in our
call to meeting for that meeting.
We definitely want to make your regional transit service the best option for our
populations.

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

Comments Submitted by Andrea Suhaka, Chair, Transportation Solutions

3.A.1.a

Comments Submitted by Jamie Lewis, CCDC Transit Advisor

Attachment: Subregional Service Councils - recommendation and comments (1) (4499 : Subregional Service Councils)

I wanted to reach out to you concerning the legislative accountability group's
recommendation for sub-regional councils. As you may know I worked for
the Denver Regional Mobility Access Council for 4 years. Watching the
development and work that the Local Coordinating Councils were doing was
significant.
As you may know there are 6 active LCC's in the region that include Clear
Creek, Boulder County, Broomfield, Arapahoe County, Douglas County,
Jefferson County and
Denver County. Each of the LCC's approach transportation depending on the
needs of their region. This is a great source of information and work that
would
be helpful to RTD. The diversity of the LCC's is noteworthy also. For instance,
Angel Bond works on the Boulder LCC. She is one of the brightest person I
know when it comes to transportation equity. Clear creek has active Mayors in
the group which helps expedite ideas and projects that may be presented.
The Denver
LCC has great representation from CDOT and RTD and we are currently
working on youth access to transportation in the Sun Valley neighborhood.
So my purpose of reaching out to you is that I wanted to insure you that there
are groups of people (LCC's) that have been working hard to improve
transportation services in their region. The combination of elected officials,
human service providers, transportation specialist and just ordinary
concerned citizens makes them a perfect fit to fill the role of sub-region
councils.

Packet Pg. 26

