RTD Special Board Meeting - 3-23-2021
BOB BROOM: That must be somebody coming in by satellite.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that was ET phoning home.
BOBBY DISHELL: We're all sort of in by satellite.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek, good evening.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams, good evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So I'll ask this, I guess, when we start as well, but so you know, Angie called me
about a half hour ago and had to help a friend in an emergency situation get to the hospital, and hopefully
will be joining us in a bit. But unless she shows up in a couple of minutes, I'll be starting the meeting off.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Vice Chair.
NICOLE CAREY: Director Guissinger, this is Nikki. When you start the meeting, I'm going to take the
screen share off so everybody can see all the participants, OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Nikki. That's great. Do we have everybody here? No, we're not quite
ready, but. Do we know, except for Angie? Looking close.
KATE WILLIAMS: I get 13 of them.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hmm. Well, Angie's one, and I guess we'll see if everybody gets on when we start.
BOBBY DISHELL: I see 14.
KATE WILLIAMS: Is Director Lewis here?
LYNN GUISSINGER: She is.
KATE WILLIAMS: Aha, that's who I was counting missing. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is anyone else getting snow?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I am here in Ruby Hill.
KATE WILLIAMS: Lowry, trying to pretend I don't see it.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: None here in Southeast.
BOBBY DISHELL: Dr. Rosenthal, did you say no snow for you?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: None here by I-25 in Hamden.
BOBBY DISHELL: We have some here, just now starting to come down. So I wonder if you'll get it in the
next however many minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: It's been going back and forth all day here at my house, so right now, it's not, but it
could start in a minute again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I think we have everybody here, and it's 5:30. Are we ready to start the
recording and kick it off? Yeah? Is recording set? I guess that's the question.
NICOLE CAREY: Yeah, the recording has started.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. Thanks.
NICOLE CAREY: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, I will now call the Tuesday, March 23 RTD special Board meeting to order.
We are convened as of 5:30 PM MDT. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are
recognized to speak. I'm Lynn Guissinger. I am First Vice Chair, and I will be running the meeting at least
to start until our chair is able to join us.

Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interests of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio- and video-recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd/denver.com. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page. Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to
be acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I'd ask that you please raise your virtual hand and wait for
me to call on you before proceeding to speak.
Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings. For any directors or
staff participating by phone, remember that you can indicate that you would like to speak by pressing *9.
To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press *6.
Colleagues, being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As the Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust and collegiality.
These are values we can all agree upon. As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating
guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in accordance with those principles, which are available on
the Board of Directors page on the RTD website. Ms. McManus, can you please call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And First Vice Chair Guissinger and Chair pro tem.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am here. Thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. 14 accounted for, one absent.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. With 14 present and one absent, we have a quorum. At RTD, safety is our
core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. As more and more people become
fully vaccinated, it's tempting to return to normal, and it is nice to know that we are close to getting there.
We're starting to move there, but the experts still warn against throwing away your face masks.
Face masks and physical distancing will need to continue into the foreseeable future according to an
infectious disease specialist with the CDC. Unfortunately, getting vaccinated does not instantly mean we
can go back to how life was before. We need some level of herd immunity in order to fully get there,
which means 50% to 80% of the population will need to be vaccinated.
The CDC does, however, say that fully vaccinated people can now safely gather indoors in small
gatherings with other people who are fully vaccinated, no masks required. It's important to note that fully
vaccinated people should continue to wear masks and maintain physical distance while in public spaces.
The vaccines are definitely a step in the right direction, and we encourage everyone to get vaccinated.
They're a reason to celebrate, but we're not out of the woods yet.
Before moving on to the recommended action, I am going to take just a moment to remember what
happened in our state and in my city yesterday. It's horrible to us as a country when we hear of the
continuing mass shootings, but it's particularly horrifying when it happens in our state and our community.
I think I can speak for all of us in expressing our deepest condolences and sorrow for those that were
murdered and for their families.
We honor and remember the King Soopers employees who, like our operators and frontline workers,
have stayed the course in providing their services through this pandemic. We honor Eric Tally, the police
officer who responded, who was working to protect all of us. And we honor and grieve people like us who
are just going to the grocery store.
I want to particularly thank RTD staff and our partners at Via for the role that they played in helping in this
situation. My understanding is that staff sent buses to help transport survivors, and RTD transit police
officers responded along with so many other police and sheriffs and security forces from around the area
to provide assistance to the Boulder Police Department.
There was a news story last night, apparently, that showed one of our bus operators leaving flowers at
the site. She had worked along that route or passed it on her way to work and was paying her respects.
I'd also like to Thank our partners at Via, which is acting as a mass gathering site for mental health
services for those involved.
Our driver for Via, Alan Parsons, posted something that I thought resonated with so many of our
employees as well when he said, "One of our clients that I've given a ride to work many, many times, Teri,
was one of the victims that lost her life. I've known Teri for seven years, as long as I've been a driver for
Via. I'm really going to miss her always happy attitude and her smiling face when I would pick her up to
take her to work, when she is on my schedule for a ride.

I don't accept this as normal, and I hope we can work for a future in which this is a rare event. Thank you.
We have one recommended action on the agenda this evening. RTD Board's position on HB21-1186
reflecting the Accountability Committee's legislative recommendations. Well, I'm thinking-BOB BROOM: Move approval .
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not sure I picked up the right-- it's for the Board to adopt a resolution in support
of House Bill 21-1186 concerning relieving the Regional Transportation District of statutory restrictions
related to the District's operations. Hmm, I'm not sure.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think I see it. Yes?
SHELLEY COOK: If somebody will second, I'll make a motion to amend.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, let me-- I'll finish reading this. As you'll recall, the recommended action
regarding the Board's consideration of its position on House Bill 1186 was postponed during the March
29th special Board meeting out of consideration for the concerns from Amalgamated Transit Union 1001
regarding certain language in the bill.
Since that time, our General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson has worked with union president Lance
Longenbohn on proposed amendments that, if approved by the legislature, would garner support from
ATU 1001 for the bill. The proposed red-line version of the resolution of support for House Bill 1186
included in tonight's agenda packet on page 6 reflects those proposed amendments.
With these developments in mind, if there's no objection, I will ask for a substitute motion, which would
replace the action as originally stated in the agenda package as follows.
For the Board to adopt a resolution in support of House Bill 21-1186, titled "concerning relieving the
Regional Transportation District of statutory restrictions related to the District's operations with the
amendments mutually agreed to and proposed by Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO, and
Lance Longenbohn President, Amalgamated Transit Union number 1001, on March 12, 2021 regarding
retaining the 58% cap on contracted services and updating statutory terms consistent with modern transit
terminology regarding platform time." Do we have a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Shelley Cook.
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion from Director Cook and a second from Director Whitmore.
Now I'll ask our General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson to present any pertinent information regarding
this action.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
Nice to be with you all this evening. Before you as presented is amended language as it relates to House
Bill 21-1186 as specified, recognizing that this item came forward to the Board and was postponed on
March 9.
Since such time, I have had discussions with the president of the Union as stated by Madam Chair, and in
recognizing that we changed some terminology that is more reflective and inclusive of what happens in
daily transit operations, I believe that this better aligns with what we are doing collectively to deliver transit
service.
And just for everyone's edification, as related to vehicle hours, that really was misleading from the
perspective in which I first read this legislation, recognizing the vehicle hours could be any type of vehicle,

and commonplace language in the transit space is platform hours or platform time, which we utilize in the
course of this drafted amendment as specified by the Federal Transit Administration's National Transit
Database glossary.
And platform time basically specifies the time during which an operator operates the revenue vehicle in
line service for deadheading, including layover periods in the vehicle at a rest point. So it basically
specifies operational aspects that were silent as related to the vehicle term. And then additionally, that
plays into the 58% cap relative to the type of service delivery and what we are contracting. So with that
Madam Chair I consider my remarks. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. At this time, I would ask those directors who wish to speak to raise their
virtual hands, and I'll call on you in turn. For directors or staff calling into the meeting, if you wish to speak,
please press *9. All right, I see Director Rosenthal first.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank, you, Madam Chair, and thank you, General Manager Johnson. so on the
change that's being proposed to the bill, the proposed amendment on the 58% to be contracted, what
was the rationale that was discussed with the union as to why that should be retained?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much to the Chair, to Director Rosenthal. The cap basically says "up
to," and when we think about it holistically, when you're using vehicle hours, there was confusion as it
relates, is that fixed-route service utilizing rubber tires. And so the clarification was added so there is a
better understanding and relationship that we actually mean fixed-route service, whereas vehicles before
didn't basically give an inclination as to what that is.
I believe, for my edification when I read through this, it was just commonplace language that people who
have historical knowledge could assume. And so relative to the nomenclature, in addition to this language
being retained at the 58% cap, which is a ceiling, not a floor, it enables us greater opportunities to keep
forward with the service delivery model that we have.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any further discussion? Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Lewis was next,
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Thank you, Director Lewis, and thank you, Madam Chair. This is more of a
technical question, but the resolution is that we take a position in support of House Bill 2021 1186. Are
these red-line amendments currently included in that version?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The red-line amendments, Menalie may be better to answer that, but the
amendments will officially be added when the bill comes up in front of the Committee on March 30 at
1:30, is my understanding. Ms. Snyder, do you have anything to add to that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. That's correct. They have not, to my knowledge,
been introduced yet. They're just proposed amendments that both the union and Debra Johnson are
proposing. If you look at packet page six of the resolution, it does acknowledge that these are proposed
amendments, so--

BOBBY DISHELL: And should these amendments not pass into legislation, is it still-- I'm curious what
others' thoughts are on having a position of support if these amendments are not included in alternate
language.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I will take a stab at that. I think my understanding is that the bill sponsors do
intend to introduce these amendments. We don't expect that that would be a problem, since the union
and RTD are agreeing on them. But I suppose if there is a problem, we would potentially have to come
back to the Board. Ms. Johnson or Ms. Snyder, do you have anything?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, Madam Chair, thank you so much for recognizing what's before you is support of
the bill with the amendment. That would mean we wouldn't support-- your action wouldn't signify that
there's support of the amendment sans the red line. Does that clarify? So what I'm trying to encapsulate is
that your support of this amendment includes the red line. That's what you're voting on. So going forward
to the point that you raised, this information has been provided to the drafters. We don't know if there will
be additional amendments or modifications, but this body is basically acting on what me and Mr.
Longenbohn have collectively worked towards and is before you this evening. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure that that's what was being passed, and
that that's included. I mean, now therefore, be it resolved on packet page seven. Because as it stands, I
believe that's just a blanket statement right now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Snyder, do you have anything to add there?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, I think when we can read the resolution in totality with the proposed
amendments. It's clear that that's the resolution that the Board is adopting. It's in support of House Bill
1186 with the proposed amendments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Does that answer the questions?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you all. Nothing further. Yeah, thank you. Nothing further.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, if I could interrupt Director Lewis just as a spin-off to that very
important question. So is this Board going to have flexibility to move quickly enough if we have an
additional amendment or two that's added outside of our purview that we can live with, or maybe not live
with. I would hate to see the whole process stop to Director Dishell's point. Is there flexibility with our
lobbyists in that regard? Or how would we proceed if we have a bit of a deviation from what we're
approving tonight?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Suggestions, Ms. Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, I think the Board has flexibility if you felt that you needed to convene. If the
Board felt that they wanted to convene a Special Board Meeting to address any specific amendments or
the fact that amendments weren't proposed, you could certainly do that. There's an opportunity to do that
if that was-TROY WHITMORE: OK, good. The way sausage-making goes on down there, as most of us know, that is
a possibility. So I would just forewarn that we may need to have a quick check-in vote. And with that,
thank you for allowing me to interrupt Director Lewis.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It looks like our General Manager might have something. Oh, OK. OK. So actually,
very similar questions to Director Dishell. And so I appreciate him raising them. And then I had a process
question, that in the event that these things weren't included, what would be our process? So similar to

Director Whitmore's questions. What's our process in the event that these things aren't included? And I
looked at the language just recently here online, and it's not included. And to your point, you said it won't
be until the 30th. But I'm just curious how we would move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I suppose that as General Counsel Snyder said, we could reconvene a meeting.
We could, I suppose, add something that says that these-- well, I don't know if we want to support the bill
without these amendments. So I guess my thought would be that is the best way to go. General Counsel,
do you-- or Miss Johnson, either of you, have anything to add there?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. My recommendation is that we stay the course relative to
what these amendments are. And if something were to change, as Director Whitmore has pointed out, I
believe it would be in our best interest to calendar a Special Board Meeting to give this entire body an
opportunity to opine, as relates to our path forward with supporting this legislation. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I'm not sure if Director Cook or Director Catlin was next. So I'll go
alphabetically. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good guess. I wanted to, first of all, thank General Manager and CEO Johnson for the
hard work and collaboration with the union president. Well done. And I think that sets the groundwork for
further positive relationships. So I wanted to thank you. And then the items that were addressed by
Directors Dishell and Whitmore I shared. I was concerned that we support the resolution as it stands. But
we all know that amendments can get tacked on at the last minute that may not be something that this
Board would want to have included in the bill. So I do appreciate the flexibility in being able to reconvene
a Special Board Meeting should that occur.
But again, I am pleased to see that this provides RTD with more flexibility. And I was also pleased to see
that the bill titling was fairly narrowly defined so as not to create an open door for some other activities of
the legislature. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I think that all of the questions so far have been around the same
issue. And since it's not our bill, it's the Accountability Committee's bill and Representative Gray and
Senator Winter are moving it forward, the bill will continue moving forward even if it's amended. And there
will be time, I think, for us to come back and make a different statement if a different statement is
warranted. I see Director Cook, but I also see General Manager Johnson. Did you have something you
wanted to add? Oh, your hand is still up? OK. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. Just to double check with General Manager Johnson-- so if I
understand things, the 58% with the modification in terminology doesn't affect the real-time ceiling. Is that
true? Or have we always used a platform time as sort of our de facto definition for determining whether
we were meeting or coming underneath the 58%?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. More or less we have. I mean, from my recollection-- and I want to
acknowledge Michael Ford and Jessie Carter and also General Counsel Snyder who assisted me in this
endeavor. I don't want anybody to think that it was a one-woman show. But with that as the backdrop,
Director Cook, this does enable us-- because I'll share as relates to different options whereby we talk
about contracted service and recognizing that there could be non-governmental entities outside the type
of gig work, inhaling, and things of the like. Utilizing platform time is more specific as it relates to the way
in which you deliver bus service.

And so that's why it was important that we switched from vehicle, because what does vehicle actually
mean? In the grand scheme of things, unless you read the entire statute, a rail vehicle is a vehicle. But
this is talking about rubber tires. And so going through this whole sort of edification process that I had,
recognizing what the intent of the language was, it became apparent to me that clarification was needed
relative to the terminology. So if somebody else is sitting in this seat in seven years and goes back and
reads this that "platform time in the transportation space" is known terminology, whereas a vehicle could
be any type of vehicle.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: So just to verify, this doesn't, once put into effect and using that term versus service
hours, have the effect of reducing the cap. Correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No. So when you're saying-- yes, when you say "service hours," for all intents and
purposes, as you read this, platform time deals with revenue service. So there's other service hours that
one could have where you're not actually operating in revenue service, if that makes sense. So there are
some nuances here. I don't want to get too much in the weeds. But to answer your question, yes, this
enables us to deliver our service in the manner that it was intended.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other comments or discussion? OK. I will call for the vote on the matter.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Madam Chair, a quick question. Have there also been any conversations with the
Governor's offices to get maybe his thoughts on this bill? As you know, governors in general have
different styles as to their involvement in legislation, particular pieces, or legislation in general. I know the
Governor has been interested in RTD matters. Has there been any discussion with his office as to his
opinion on this bill?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can answer that. I think that I know that the co-chairs of the Accountability
Committee did meet with the Governor and give him an update and presentation on the Accountability
Committee's work and on this bill. I don't know that the Governor has expressed-- I have not heard any
response from that. But I think he has been briefed on the provisions of the bill.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? Great. At this time I will call for a roll call vote. I will ask all Directors
to unmute your microphones, and we'll proceed in alphabetical order. Ms. McManus, can you do the roll
call vote, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Aye.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: For the record, just checking, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. And finally, First Vice Chair
and Chair Pro Tem Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 yeses. It passes unanimously.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. The resolution is adopted as amended unanimously. Thank you very much.
Directors, please place your microphones back on mute if you have not already done so. We're on to
Other Matters. There's one item listed on the agenda regarding subregional service councils. At this time,
I'll ask-- she says she'll ask First Vice Chair Director Guissinger to kick off this conversation. So maybe I'll
put on a different hat and then kick off this conversation. And then I'll ask CEO Debra Johnson to join in.
I hope that you all received the email today with some overall comments and a few specifics. I want to
thank the Directors who have given us feedback. I think that we have received-- a number of you have
talked with some of your local governments and others. And I received some very good feedback and
questions from several of you-- Director Lewis, Director Dishell, Director Cook, and several others
verbally that I've spoken with.
A good question was raised, I think, by Director Lewis and Director Dishell about how this Board gives
feedback in a situation like this. And I think that's something that hopefully we'll be able to look at some
more as we get through the strategic planning process and hopefully look at small committees and things
like that, because I think it's a good question. What we tried to do, Director Whitmore and I, was to put
together this session to discuss the feedback we would give. The subregional council idea is obviously
not one that is coming from this Board. It's coming from the Accountability Committee.
I want to start by just making the overall comments that I sent out today-- that the RTD Board and staff
share the Accountability Committee's commitment to increasing two-way communication with our local
and regional partners and our customers. This increased commitment was started recently with regional
community and stakeholder feedback sessions conducted by RTD staff which are intended to be ongoing
and continuing. RTD supports the concept of the subregional service councils, believing that there are
many details that can be worked out with a stakeholder group to be formed by RTD.

The RTD Board provides the following feedback on the DRCOG subregional service council
recommendation. As an overall comment, under the heading of Geography, the Accountability Committee
recommends RTD establish a work group of regional stakeholders to evaluate two possible service
boundary concepts for the councils. The RTD Board recommends that this stakeholder group, working
with RTD, look at other issues as well, including membership on the council, tasks to be performed, and a
plan for outreach and communication with our customers and potential customers. We received input
from local coordinating councils, TMAs, Board members, our staff, local government staff, and others, that
would be helpful in filling in the details.
So putting this together, I was working with Director Whitmore and CEO Johnson and Chair RiveraMalpiede. And looking at the one-page description of the subregional councils that DRCOG drafted and
the Accountability Committee has considered in committee. My understanding is that this will go to the full
Accountability Committee on April 12 probably. It's not set in the agenda yet, but that's from my
conversation with Doug Rex.
So what I tried to do here was to give some suggestions to help guide the discussion. These are not final
answers, but it seemed in the questions I received from some of you and the feedback and in talking with
others and attending the meeting that there are a lot of details that need to be worked out on these
subregional councils. My understanding is staff likes the concept. I'll let Ms. Johnson speak to that in a
few minutes. But it seemed like the stakeholder workgroup that the recommendation to the Accountability
Committee suggested, which was suggested in terms of deciding the right geography-- travel shed or
county size-- is also a good place to flesh out the details rather than having them all fleshed out by the
Accountability Committee. That's one where RTD can participate and work with our stakeholders. And
there seemed to be a lot of opinions out there, but I think that it's a good idea and a good way to move
forward with working out the details.
With respect to some of the other suggestions I put in this memo and we put in this memo, a couple of
these came from Director Cook and also from a number of other people. But just I think the Accountability
Committee assumed that the RTD Directors would be integral to these groups. But it seemed like it made
sense to make that specific-- so we added that-- also that these groups would be working jointly with RTD
service planning staff to develop the recommendations or plans for transit services in their area.
And finally, on resource allocation, the recommendation was that annually RTD would provide a report to
each of the local councils, the subregional councils, on the value that RTD brings to their area. And in the
Accountability Committee meetings discussion, every time it came up, someone would say, the value that
is brought to that area is not just a one-to-one. You put this much in, this is what you get out. But there is,
of course, value in a regional transit system. And that was raised by several of you as well. So I'm
suggesting that we suggest to the Accountability Committee that they make that explicit. And just based
on their conversations, I don't think that that will be controversial. I can't speak to that. But that's my
sense.
So Ms. Johnson, if you can speak on this as well. And then we'll open it up for discussion. And I'll just say,
tonight it would be very helpful to get your feedback. If you generally like this approach, if you'd like to
suggest amendments, I think we have time to bring this back, if we want to, as a recommended action in
the Communications and Government Relations Committee meeting on April 6 before they go back by
April 4. It is, again, just feedback. So we could come up with something tonight. We can approach it again
in a couple of weeks, which may be the better way to do it. Ms. Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Appreciate the opportunity to opine on this
subject matter. Before I delve in, I do want to qualify some statements. First and foremost, I want
everyone to know since I joined this organization and learned about the Accountability Committee that I
have been attending and participating in, and I want to basically share that the Accountability Committee
often has asked me for input, recognizing my years in the transit industry in the space, and also
recognizing that I have come from a transit agency which had something in which we qualified as service
councils and recognizing some of the lessons learned and recognizing that when you see one transit
agency you see one transit agency. And it's very important that this is reflected and is indigenous of what
we're doing here collectively.
So moreover, what I'd like to share as well, following up on Madam Chair's comments as relates to
perhaps there's an opportunity to come back, I want to state publicly as well, as I talked with my team and
with our representatives on the Accountability Committee as well as with the Chair that I believe it's
imperative that when we provide feedback it's done in such a way that is qualified. And it comes from us
in a holistic fashion, very analogous as we get input or we give input, whereby it's provided in a format
where we have a period of time and that it's evident as opposed to an email. So I do want to share that as
well. That's something that we have conveyed.
So with that as a backdrop, having convened a cross-section of members of my leadership team as well
as subject matter experts in this space that report within the auspices of our Chief Operating Officer
Michael Ford, as I look at the various segments, we support the concept in theory, supporting the
proposal's first four bullets, which you heard from Madam Chair in reference to improving the
collaboration between RTD and the communities, increasing opportunities for public input, advancing
social equity goals by developing community-based transit and promoting innovative mobility solutions.
I would offer up that clarification is needed regarding the proposal's fifth bullet, where it talks about the
whole notion of equity once again. And I would say equity means fairness. Equality is the state of being
equal. So recognizing that RTD is responsive to a variety of needs across the region, if you had
geographic equity, we would in turn equate that to equality. And so that's why I'm seeking clarification,
because there's a different understanding of what that is. And of course, RTD supports rebuilding trust
and transparency.
As it relates to the membership, let me be clear that we move people, and we need to have an
understanding of what our customers' pain points are. So when you look at the composition of the service
council as outlined, we are interested in the number of seats within each classification because I think the
customer's voice is paramount. Recognizing that stakeholders, it's important to hear what they have to
say, but recognizing that you have individuals that are utilizing the system that have an understanding of
what it means when they're waiting when a bus doesn't meet a time point and the implications of such.
When you think about interlining and local routes versus regional routes, all of that comes from the voice
of the customer who is actually enduring this mode of transport.
As relates to geography, recognizing that there will be a stakeholder group to look at how this will all
come to be, we do support the notion of a travel shed. And that's really indicative by the enhanced
community and stakeholder engagement that we have done thus far in reference to leveraging
geographic sectors. And so as we look at that from a service delivery point of view and recognizing what
it takes to deliver transit service and how you go into planning that, we believe that that would be in the
best interests, especially for our customer segments.

And then last but not least, when we talk about this RTD resource allocation, I think, if anything, we are
people that move people. And we do that by providing mobility freedom and enabling access to regional
activity centers, thereby enhancing the quality of life. So when we talk about activity centers within our
service area-- and what I mean by that, we're talking about large employment sites, business centers,
educational institutions, medical centers, social service agencies, convention centers, the airport,
entertainment and sporting venues. And those span the region. For instance, large employers sites-- you
have the Central Business District in Denver, but you also have the anschutz medical center that's in
Aurora. When you talk about educational institutions and things, you have Denver and Boulder, you have
a convention center, the National Western Center, you have Gaylord Center.
So when we think about it, we are a regional agency. And people aren't traditionally just traveling within
their small areas. And so we have to look at it and stand back and think about that as it talks about the
value as opposed to generating a report or something of the like. But more specifically, I leave this as
well. It's important that we look at our economic impact, because when we talk about transit, we need to
look at it through the lens of not just our regional economy but state and federal economy, the direct and
indirect impacts on the economy, because we are recipients of use taxes. So you don't have to reside in
this area for us to benefit. So we are spawning the economy in that vein. So when we talk about what is
the value allocation, we'd be remiss not to take that into consideration.
So with that, Madam Chair, I'll yield the floor. And thank you for the opportunity to share viewpoints that
my team and I have. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: You're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, let me ask, before we move on, if Director Whitmore, as Vice Chair of
the committee who attends this, if you have anything to say.
TROY WHITMORE: You know, I think the discussion is going to be more valuable than any repetitive
mentions that I make, Madam Chair. Both you and Debra have done a great job of summarizing things.
So let's get on with the input. I think that's going to be extremely valuable.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I believe I saw Director Catlin first. Is that right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I wanted to let you know that I appreciated the
opportunity when you reached out. We had a telephone conversation about this. And I also wanted to
acknowledge Directors Cook, Lewis, Williams, and Dishell for their thoughtful written comments.
As I read this, even after we talked, it occurred to me that there's one sector that is not mentioned. And
CEO General Manager Johnson just referred to the economic impact that we as an agency have in the
region and in the state. And it occurred to me that such entities as our chambers of commerce in all of our
regions really could be tapped, because we talk about developing partnerships, and those are the very
people that we need to have at the table in these discussions for partnerships and meaningful
partnerships going forward.
So my suggestion is that we do have that business component and those chambers of commerce. And
looking at it from a slightly selfish point of view, a lot of your communities have strong governments,
whether they be city councils, town councils, or county commissioners. There are some really strong
advocates, but there are some areas that do not have that strong a representation. And that's why I think
it would be important to include some of those chambers of commerce type agencies or economic
development councils. Thank you, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Good suggestion. I'm taking notes. And actually, I apologize. I don't
know who came next. It looks like Director Buzek came next.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, thanks for everybody's input and the people that submitted
written input as well. Overall I agree in great part with Director Cook's comments. With regard to the bullet
point on geographic equity, I think that needs to be there. But I agree that we need to understand what
that means. And I know that there were other comments about geographic equity versus social equity.
And it's not one or the other; that's for sure. And I think that's made pretty clear by the fact the
Accountability Committee has an entire separate policy statement regarding social equity. So I think that's
great, and we need to always keep that at the forefront.
With regard to membership, I think Directors need to be involved with whatever the geographic
component of the boundary is going to be, because we represent a lot of people, too. We represent the
entire district. So I think we should be somehow involved. And I think Director Cook's comments hit on
that as well.
With regard to the geography, county versus travel shed, I don't know how you make travel shed the way
to go. Travel sheds change. Travel patterns change. And I would think, depending on how you identify a
travel shed, that's subject to change whereas, county boundaries are not.
With regard to the comments made by Director Cook on working jointly with RTD to make this happen, I
don't want to see these service councils be autonomous and work separate from RTD. They really need
to coordinate with us and with our Planning Department and our service planners. Otherwise they're just
operating in a vacuum. If they worked autonomously, they could come up with some service plan that
may make absolutely no sense. So I think it's best-- and I think Director Cook's comments address that as
well. That's all I have. Thanks, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Who else is next, those with your hands raised? I'm going to go with
Director Williams. Director Williams also gave very helpful written comments and spoke with some of the
people from the LCCs which sent in very helpful comments, too. And I responded to all of them and
appreciate their comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair, Pro Tem Vice Chair, Director, whatever other titles you
have. There's a couple of things I just want to point out. As everybody here, I think, knows, I'm a huge
proponent of using the existing groups that we have now. Not only do we have local coordinating councils
in seven counties in our region, we have transportation management associations also out there. Both of
those are transit-related organizations, some of who have been around for 10 years or more, representing
interests in the business community and in the human services community. So I'd like to make sure that
we include them.
I have two other points I want to share with everyone. There's a bill, I believe, moving through right now
from the Regional Air Quality Council that has to do with employer trip reduction planning that is going to
require that employers in our district be able to prove that 40% of their employees are either working from
home or using transit. That is something that we need to be looking at. That's an indicator of where the
world around us is going in the future.
And the last question I want to ask, I find it interesting that I've not heard any discussion yet about using
the 15 districts that we represent, since those are legislated now. And that would involve each of us in
areas that we have worked very hard to establish a relationship in. So I'd just like to throw that in there

with travel shed and other considerations, that maybe we could use the districts that we already have.
And those are my comments for tonight. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Has anybody talked with DRCOG about their thoughts about
this issue, and also to get their thoughts about how the changes that they've made have been working
out? When I used to serve on that board-- and this went on for many, many years-- in the TIP process,
every project was scored, and it didn't matter where it was at geographically. Everything was lined up by
point numbers. And then they drew a line when they ran out of money. But now, in recent years, as I
understand it, they've formed some subdistricts, and they've allocated the money out to them and let them
pick projects. And I wonder how that's working out. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can answer a little bit of that. The DRCOG staff drew the recommendation up on
the subregional councils for the Accountability Committee, since they're acting as staff to the
Accountability Committee. They do have these subregional forums that are county based and include
staff and elected officials from the various cities and towns in the county and the county itself. I can't
speak to all of them, but the ones I've heard in my area, they did not expect to like that approach. But they
have liked the approach. But again, there would be seven of those in our district, as they're all different
counties. So those are good questions, and I'm writing them down. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you also, Director Whitmore and those who have
taken the time to chat on the phone. I know we've spent a lot of time, since submitting my written
comments, just going back and forth on this. And I won't reiterate what's in there. But I do want to
highlight a few items that have come up.
On the proposal section, I think we need to be honest. And as General Manager and CEO Johnson
mentioned, geographic equity is really an ask for geographic equality, which I don't necessarily think fits
within this. If we're really saying we're going to be social equity and we're going to be equity minded, then
let's say that. If people want geographic equality, then let's say that.
From what I understand from speaking with folks who work in the equity space, geographic equity is a
term that may have been coined by a Director here or somewhere else and has just been used over and
over again to really just mean equal spending across the districts. While I think it's vital that we rebuild
trust and transparency with constituents, that should be its own bullet if it is supposed to stand on its own.
If it's connected to geographic equity, then let's call it geographic equality. And I firmly believe that we
don't need geographic equality to rebuild trust and transparency with constituents.
On membership, I'm sure this was not intentional, but "university" is a term that means it has both
undergraduate and graduate courses of study. So for example, Community College of Denver or
community college students would not be included in that group. I also think our youth deserve a seat at
the table. Many of them use our services to get to and from school, and many of them rely on our
services to get to and from school if they have jobs-- that should be there.
And to the extent we are asking citizens to be a part of our committees, I'm relatively confident that we
provide a pass to people who serve on our committees. And when you're asking for time and labor of
people, I'm a big believer that you need to pay them for it. And saying that it's all volunteer is not equitable
and really limits who can and can't participate.
So I really want to drive that home. And the resource allocation, I appreciate the value and taking into
account the entire economic impact that RTD provides. If people find it valuable, great. If it's something

we're already doing, great. But I think as many on this call know, the way that economic impact is
calculated varies widely.
And the devil is really in the details on this and as a policymaking body. I don't know that we need to get
into that. But it's really a matter of, is this worth the time and effort to do for data that might not be that
useful and actionable because someone else might sit there and say, well, I crunch numbers and I came
up with a number that's vastly different from yours? Well, then we just spent all this time and money for
someone to say, I came up with a different number. But I do appreciate, really, the work that has gone
into this. I really want to just drive those two points home as we sort bring this back.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. To some extent, some of this may be piling on.
But I do want to note that there is no articulated express or specific reference to the LCCs, which are the
designated voices of the very subregions that the Accountability Committee addresses here. Now, it may
be argued that the word "stakeholders" as used in the proposal is intended to include these LCCs. But
this arguably, I submit, has the effect of minimizing or marginalizing the importance of the LCCs.
So I join those who have emphasized the centrality of our LCCs in this process. I know that TSAC,
Transportation Solutions Arapahoe County and Douglas County Transportation Solutions are critically
important and representative and helpful participants in this process. So let's go ahead and name them as
participants in this process. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. A couple of quick things. As a general approach, I think what
you've outlined is a good one. There are obviously a lot of things they have to be fleshed out yet. And I
like the idea of broadening the stakeholders group to encompass some of those things. I think that will
make for a better process.
I did reach out to Arvada, the largest local government in District L, or at least representing the largest
part of District L, I should say. And I didn't talk to anybody on the city council about it, but I did talk to the
Economic Development and Community Development Manager. And he was quite favorably impressed
with the idea of the service councils. And his point of view was we commit to land use plans that hold for
50 or 100 years. And if we all want to develop areas that are places where people don't have to use their
cars or don't have to rely on a car so much, then we also need to have a say in the transit service that's
delivered that makes that possible.
So in other words, they didn't want to be committing to a transit-oriented area when they had no say in
whether or not transit was provided to the area. So he thought from that standpoint it worked for multiple
aims. I think General Manager Johnson said a way to define equity is fairness, and I think if we're talking
in sort of a generic way, not as a term of art, that resonates for me in terms of what we're talking about
with regard to geographic equity.
And I think I had heard this good example of how you can look at it. I think Director Williams has brought
up the idea that she and I, who don't have kids, willingly pay our school taxes as a way to support that
common good. But I think the expectation for people who are paying those taxes is that there would be
schools within their area to serve the people who needed them.
And I think that's the point that folks who talk about geographic equity are really honing in on, the idea
that, yes, it may not be that everybody will have access. But the people who do within their areas should,
as a matter of equity and fairness, and also that the population as a whole is paying into the kitty to help

make those services possible. So there should be a say. So that's all. Sorry for a long-winded response.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, it was a very good response. Thank you. All of these are. I see Director
Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Vice Chair. And thank you to you, Director Guissinger, and
Director Whitmore for keeping us apprised of this. I certainly appreciate the opportunity to stay informed
on this. I just wanted to make one comment and then two recommendations or thoughts.
First of all, I think the idea of doing some type of local service council in general, from a very high level,
makes a lot of sense to me. I think we're missing the mark in a couple of places. You know, I have, in
some ways, the blessing and the difficulty of having multiple very different types of cities within the district
up here in District I. And there are very different needs, different frustrations, different gaps, et cetera. So
the idea of getting local voices involved, including our customers, I think, is very helpful.
A few things occur to me. One recommendation I have-- it may be that one size doesn't fit all for this. So
I'm glad there will be working groups on this. I think there's a lot of details we're starting to get around the
periphery on here. But it's clear that we need working groups to actually get into the details. But take, for
example, the travel shed versus the county. I think there are some counties that can take on a little bit
more and maybe would have a different approach, whereas travel shed may make sense for some of our
smaller cities and smaller counties and also areas. So I would encourage that we work with our
transportation managers as we start to figure that out.
I have gotten feedback from some of our transportation managers in a couple of different cities. And there
are varying viewpoints here. And there are some concerns, too, that this could kind of turn into the haves
and have-nots. So I just want to emphasize that this may be not a one size fits all. I'd love to stay
apprised as the Working Group works on this, but I would hope we would look at all options.
The other thing that I just wanted to recommend as we do put together the Working Group on this and
look at this. We need to have an eye towards getting the customer voice on this. And I think there are a
number of ways to do that directly involving customers, as we've talked about in the service councils, as
well as things perhaps this Board can be involved in with enhanced town halls, working in conjunction
with our cities to go out and meet our customers. I think we need their voice in here.
We are a big area, and when I think of products, RTD has the product. It's very easy for us to verify that
the product is working-- how is the ridership, how are the routes working-- but it's very hard for us to
validate, are we giving the customers exactly what they need. And that also-- I can see that we have
some gaps across the district. So I think we just also need to have an eye on how we get the customer
voice in this.
So just to summarize, thank you. I'm supportive of getting local voices. But let's make sure we keep an
eye on the customer. And certainly I would recommend the mentality that one size may not fit all here for
different types of cities, counties, travel sheds, et cetera. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Whitmore, I see your hand now.
TROY WHITMORE: You know, Director Lewis was ahead of me. I just had a couple of summary
thoughts. So let's let-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry.
TROY WHITMORE: --Director Lewis go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis, I didn't see your hand there. Your turn.

SHONTEL LEWIS: It's all good. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Whitmore. The question
that I have for you is, what are we solving for with this recommendation? And so I'm just curious is what
the discussion has been with the Accountability Committee and what the concern is that they'd like to be
able to find a resolution to or to fix?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I think in terms of what I'm hearing the Accountability Committee-- and I
would ask Director Whitmore or Ms. Johnson to jump in as well. But a big piece of it is just the forum
where RTD is listening and is getting information and where the service decisions are not made and then
going out to get feedback.
But we're getting feedback, as we've started recently, getting feedback earlier on and in the process in
working together, so that sort of thing. Also a forum-- oh, I forget the term, Debra probably knows it, but
where they can go out and create local transit plans, where they're looking at equities and the people who
need service the most and all of those things.
And then there's another one that speaks probably to more county-based groups but could work another
way, but is the idea that people in Colorado don't tend to vote for district-wide taxes, statewide taxes, but
they do tend to support transportation and other things at the very local level, and that this may be a way
to enhance transit by going to the people for additional funding. And I would ask Debra Johnson or Troy
Whitmore to jump in there.
TROY WHITMORE: I would love to do so, Director Lewis. I think it can be summed up in one word-proactivity. Well, two words-- lack of proactivity, more of a front-loaded approach, where service planning
is more of a discussion, and then implementation instead of just presented. And that does make for a
challenge for our staff, but I think they would appreciate the input. So it's more of a front-loading of input
and an earlier exchange. And we heard that whether it was Lone Tree or Boulder or Central Denver a
number of times. And so I think that's the issue that they're trying to address.
I just had a couple other comments. I'll wait for those, though, Madam Chair. Hopefully that helps a bit,
Shontel.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It helps some. So I do appreciate you both chiming in. I will make some of the same
comments, quite honestly. Specifically with the social equity and then the conversation around
geographic equity. Those actually conflict. Just by nature they conflict, Director Guissinger.
And so if the Accountability Committee is serious about social equity, then I think that they would have to
remove "address geographic equity" from their proposal. Or remove "social equity" and advance
geographic equity. And that is of the prerogative of the committee. But that is very concerning for me. Are
there other models that the-- when I say other models, other transit agencies-- that have adopted a
similar model that the Accountability Committee is looking at?
LYNN GUISSINGER: They did look at LA Metro and a couple of other models. I think there's one in
Seattle. Can you help with that, Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. From my understanding, I do know they look at LA Metro. And as I said with my
other comments, when you see one transit agent, you see one transit agency, because recognizing that
it's all LA County, and it's a large county. And so basically it was geographic in the sense of, oh my gosh,
some that are closer into the inner city versus what we call the Valley, being San Fernando Valley, and
the South Bay.
So it's really comparing apples to fish in reference to the service network. So that's why I say it's
important that we get something that's indigenous to our market. And it's very difficult picking up

something else because that service council model morphed into something else when the organization
was structured in a different way and is a holdover.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. I'm glad you said that, because I wasn't sure I was following the "when
you've seen one transit agency, you've seen one transit agency," and now that makes sense to me. So I
appreciate you expounding on that.
So around the membership-- I mean, I spent a lot-- I guess the question, Lynn, because I won't bore you
with all the stuff that I sent to you all. The question is, I probably would just ask about process. How does
this information get back to the council? And how does this go back to the Accountability Committee, our
concerns? And is the Accountability Committee willing to-- if we were to say, hey, this actually doesn't
work for RTD-- are they willing to explore something else, or to not even move forward in this
recommendation?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can't answer the second question. I think that they do have a lot of interest in the
local service councils. I would say, though, that as time has gone along and our General Manager has
been participating that I feel like the trust level has gone up. But I do think that they seem to be heading in
this direction. So if we said don't do it, you know, I think we'd want to explain it. But that is an option that
we could take.
The process is-- I think it's a very good question, and you raised it before. I guess before we get to that
question as a Board-- and I hope we do as part of some of our planning in the near future and looking at
the small committees, which I think would help a lot-- what I talked with the Chair about today is that
potentially we could take these comments and try to modify what I drafted earlier.
And if people want to suggest amendments tonight or something along those lines, we can bring it back
to the Board as something we could take to the Accountability Committee at the committee meeting on
April 6. It wouldn't be all the way to a Board Meeting, but I think we had some initial decision from the
Board. It's really just feedback. It's not our plan. So I guess that would be my recommendation, if you
have amendments to suggest to what we sent out today.
And I'm hearing-- you know, I agree with much of this in terms of the LCCs participating, the TMAs, the
chambers. I think those are all good groups to be suggesting. The universities is too limited, and a
number of those things. A lot of that, again, it seemed like there are a lot of details to be worked out, and
what they're kind of looking at is a high-level policy plan with some specifics in it.
And so the suggestion we had talked about was that we would ask that this stakeholder work group that
RTD would be forming would not just look at the geographic areas of the local service councils but would
also look at some of the other things, like membership and how they work with RTD and some of those
issues.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead. You go.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That actually makes me-- well, one, it sounds like the Accountability Committee is
probably just going to move forward, whether it's something that we support or maybe it's something that
we might have concerns about as a Board, which is also why I keep asking about the process, because I
want to make sure that as we go outside of the agency that how the Board feels as a collective is fairly
represented to the folks who are making these decisions. And so that's my concern. And I'm really, really
concerned about the social equity and the geographic equity. I mean, at minimum, if we aren't having true

conversations, true conversations about equity and what that means, I think we could get into a whole
world of trouble.
I do wonder-- and maybe, General Manager, you might, or maybe you, Mr. Ford-- might be able to share
your insights about how this, especially around the resource allocation, might interface with Title VI.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. That is a very good question, as we look at Title VI, just
for everybody's edification, in relationship to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and more specifically the
executive order that was instituted for environmental justice. They go hand in hand and requires us to do
a fair and service equity analysis. And I think as we look at it holistically, it does come into play because
we have to look at our service area in totality as 2,342 miles. It requires us in reference to looking at
census data with an overlay over our service area.
So when we look at these various aspects, they can't be done in a compartmentalized fashion. And so I
do think that would impact us, because recognizing when we utilize federal dollars and if we get new
vehicles and we're deploying them, we have to ensure that they are distributed in such a way as to not
cause a disproportionate burden or disparate impact on minorities and low-income individuals. So there is
the potential that that could come into play. So thank you very much for that question. It's a good one.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. No, absolutely. And Mr. Ford, please, feel free to chime in if you would like
to. I appreciate the spirit of this, Director Guissinger. And so hopefully that can be conveyed to the
Accountability Committee. I just think-- I have a lot of concerns about low-income communities, about
communities of color, how this might impact those communities specifically. And I think the Accountability
Committee should be thinking about this. And I think maybe because they're new to this transit space that
they aren't thinking about the nuances and the complications.
This also, in terms of process, feels like this comes before-- that the service councils might be making
recommendations to the Board. And just because those recommendations are made to the Board does
not mean that the Board might adopt those. And so as a Board member, I'd be concerned about, when
we're talking about establishing trust and rebuilding our relationships, that this actually in the long term
might be harmful for what we are making, in terms of the strides we are making currently.
If the subregional councils are often coming to us with recommendations that we just cannot do because
they're inequitable or for whatever other reasons-- maybe it's funding-- for reasons that we can't do. And
so that's concerning for me as well. I mean, I've said this a number of times, and we can take it or leave it
because I trust the General Manager to be able to operate this agency. But our responsibility as Board
members are to put forth policy.
And this feels as though that the Accountability Committee is in some way doing the jobs that we are
elected to do. So it's just generally concerning for me as an elected member of this Board, that the
Accountability Committee would be proposing something of this matter. And it begs the question from me- and I know you all hate when I ask this, but it does beg the question-- if the Accountability Committee is
going to operate in this way, what's the purpose of having an elected RTD Board, if the Accountability
Committee is going to do the work that we are elected to do?
And then finally, I think just as a gentle reminder that the Accountability Committee is not representative
of our-- like, we're a Regional Transportation District. There's no representation from our Denver folks.
And so I think it's important for us to recognize that the recommendations that are coming from the
Accountability Committee are not a regional perspective, and pretty heavily influenced by membership of

the North, just by membership of the Accountability Committee. And so I think that's just important for us
to remember.
I will conclude with that, but I would strongly recommend that the Accountability Committee remove the
geographic equity from this proposal, because it actually is not in line with our own values as an agency.
And in terms of membership, I think that it creates hardships for-- this will create hardships for the folks
that we serve. It's not a focus on the customers, and that's really what we need to be focused on, also
remembering that the people that are utilizing our services right now depend on our services. They don't
have other options. They aren't working from home. They are traveling to get their basic needs met. And
so that's just something for us to remember.
And I would just generally be opposed to the resource allocation. I believe that it would cause harm to our
communities. And I am not interested in harming communities. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Let's see. I'm going to go to General Counsel Snyder before we move
on.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, First Chair Guissinger. So just a reminder on process. As you might
recall, the Board adopted a proposal that was originally put together that laid out the Accountability
Committee's charge and scope of what they were going to be looking at and the process for the
committee to be putting forth recommendations. And my sense is that both staff and the Board really
appreciates the opportunity to provide feedback in this formal way, as the Accountability Committee
comes up with these conceptual recommendations, you're engaging in this interactive process where
you're going to talk through and get some informal response to that, those informal recommendations.
But I just wanted to remind you that the proposal does envision that the Accountability Committee is going
to put together a comprehensive report that's going to put together all of their recommendations. And so
the service councils, of course, is just one isolated area that they're looking at. And so I just want to
remind you that you all will be given the opportunity to review all of the recommendations holistically so
you can see how each of the different recommendations might impact the others. And then the proposal
provides that the Board will have 45 days to formally respond to those. So I just wanted to remind that the
Accountability Committee is an independent advisory body who's going to put these recommendations
together for the Governor, transportation leadership, as well as RTD to respond to and reflect on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you, Melanie. I really appreciate you bringing that up. I guess the
concern-- the reason I keep bringing it up now is because I'd hate for us to get to the end of the process
and what the Accountability Committee provides to us is something that we can't live with. And we
actually have to respond to them that actually none of the things that you all have provided to us in terms
of recommendations are things that we are willing to adopt as a Board. And so I hope, Director
Guissinger, that you are getting that I would really like for this to be a collaborative process and not wait
till the end to say yes or no essentially, but really to co-create what it is that the Accountability Committee
believes that we should be doing as an agency.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And that's a very good point. And that's exactly why we're bringing this to the
Board, is it doesn't make sense for us to feel like there are some ways to make this work but we're going
to be silent and let them do something that we don't like and then reject it. That doesn't put any of us in a
good position. We're much better off working together. And I do feel like they are listening. So I'll just say
that for now, and I'll ask the remaining Directors-- let's see. Director Sloan, are you next?

MARJORIE SLOAN: I'm not sure if I'm next, but I'll take it. And I would like to follow up on what everyone
has said. You know, I love the idea of getting more direct and timely local input to RTD. I think that's
where the Accountability Committee is coming from, and I don't think anybody here disagrees with it. It's
also the trend for the metro area that there's more and more collaboration between areas of town.
I think it's a great idea if the Accountability Committee could add in the LLCs, the chambers. I also think
it's important to have elected officials in there because most jurisdictions have their own transportation
plans which include a transit plan. But primarily, it is something that's really important, as everybody has
said, to pull in the [AUDIO OUT] of the customers.
So we keep talking about the Working Group having to work on the details. These aren't details. This is
really going to be grappling with how are the people going to work together, how are they going to be
chosen, how can you recruit to get the voices of the people? So even though it's a trend to work together,
I think this is an extraordinary effort that could either be a shining example for other transit systems, or it
could bomb, frankly, if we don't come up with a good plan.
I would point out that geographic equity, in my opinion, is not contrary to social equity, because I look at it
that employees are going to be invited into the groups for different [AUDIO OUT] or counties. A lot of
[AUDIO OUT], to be frank, in the metro area, housing is so expensive that there's an exchange of people.
The transit could be serving people in the metro area [AUDIO OUT] are going perhaps into Denver or the
Tech Center. And people from other areas are going to work in these high-priced housing areas.
So it seems to me it could work out for the benefit of all the customers, adding ridership in both directions.
I know most people in Golden do not work in Golden except in COVID times. And most people who work
in Golden don't live in Golden. And until we get equity in housing, we need to move these folks where
they need to go. So in sum, I admire the concept. And I think it's going to take an extraordinary amount of
work to make it work. But I think it can happen. And thank you for all the folks working so hard on this
concept. There are going to be more, but it can work out for the benefit of our transit district. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so listening very intently to what everyone has to
say, I'm really getting more and more excited to hear about this possible proposal from the Accountability
Committee. And sort of building on particularly Directors Whitmore and Sloan, but also keeping in mind
Director Lewis' feedback of what this is trying to fix, and then taking into consideration Director Whitmore
saying, well, this is an attempt to get people in on the ground level, to get feedback in the process early
so that we don't have disagreements or difficulties down the line. And I think I'm all for that. And I think
that's something that we need to continue to do, is getting people engaged.
And I'm sure some of these local councils in some areas will be more successful. In some areas, they will
not be. In some areas, they're going to have perhaps more input is going to be adopted through the
planning process. And some areas it may not be. And I think that's something that as the process goes
forward, as we start to hear from these local service councils, that we will know that. And we will be able
to say, hey, you know, why is it in this area that we are adopting both staff recommendations and
ultimately by us as RTD directors? Why are we accepting more from one area versus another? And I
think that's something that we can keep close tabs on.
I do have an-- I don't know if you'd call it a concern, but a thought. So if we do have local officials and
members of the community interacting with staff, interacting with RTD service planning staff, my only
hope is that these staff do not feel put upon, that they don't feel necessarily political pressure, they don't

feel personal pressure. That's sort of our job. It's the General Manager's job. It's someone on our
communication staff's job to sort of go through listening to the public. I just don't want them to feel
uncomfortable. So I guess that's sort of one of my concerns with that element of having our staff work
directly with other officials or with the community in that respect.
Another concern I would have, or just a thought, would be what if, as I said earlier, some communities,
some local service councils, get more done than others. And then some communities would say, hey, you
know, why do we do this at all? Because you're listening to us, you're engaging with us, but we're not
getting our suggestions adopted, whether it's by the staff, our staff, or by the RTD Board ultimately. So I
guess those are two areas that I would sort of bring up for us to also reflect upon. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I see Director Cook. And thank you, Director Rosenthal. I see Director Cook and
Director Davidson. But I want to circle back to Director Whitmore first.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. My comments were to some input from Director Dishell
and Tisdale, which I believe you adequately covered. I think those were good comments on colleges
versus University and LCCs and a few things of that nature. I'm just resting my writing hand, because I'm
taking copious notes. Keep it up. This is very helpful. So that's all I have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. Just to wrap up and to-- I must have had too much time over the
weekend. I plotted the members of the Accountability Committee, just overlayed on our district map. And
you know, what I find is that if there is a preponderance of members someplace, it's really to the east
and/or to the southeast. But I don't think that's the bone to pick.
I think what we've seen generally is that people-- for example, if they are mainly in-- what I did was I
plotted them where their organization is, if they're representing the organization like the University of
Colorado or CDOT. So there is sort of a cluster in Denver, Mile High Connects, et cetera. But my view is
that most of those folks are representing the region-wide interests. So at least from what I could tell, I
didn't see that there was a preponderance or a weighting at all. In fact, quite the opposite to the north. So
thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Cook. And Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll try and keep it brief. I have a question and then a
comment. To what extent-- I mean, what's the output with the service councils? Are we expecting a
recommendation that this is something the Board should consider establishing a policy? Are we expecting
something where maybe it would be recommended we change bylaws? Are we expecting legislative
action? What do you expect the output on the service council piece to be from the Accountability
Committee? Do we have that information right now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: As to whether it would be a legislative action or a recommendation?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What I'm hearing is that this would be a recommendation to RTD. And they've
suggested this workgroup that at least is working on geographic split, whether it's travel sheds or
counties. As General Counsel Snyder said, ultimately they're going to come out with a full report. And the
RTD Board has 45 days after that report comes out to accept or reject the recommendations. And so at
that point, I suppose if there was something we were really toe to toe on, they could go to the legislature
or something like that, I think. Our hope is to continue working collaboratively so we don't get there.

ERIK DAVIDSON: So is it possible that we could get a recommendation about service councils, and then
this Board may see things a little differently so we implement it, and our staff and our Board implements it
a little bit differently, than is written in the recommendation, and we just kind of by consensus agree that
the spirit has been honored? Is that a fair assessment of where we might finish with this?
TROY WHITMORE: [CHUCKLING]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Troy, you want to answer that? No? I think that that is very possible. And I think that
that was what we had in mind when I was working with Ms. Johnson and Chair Rivera-Malpiede and
trying to follow the comments we had to say, there are a lot of things to be worked out here. As Marjorie
Sloan said, there are a lot of details. And I can't speak for the Accountability Committee, but my sense is
they're not trying to work through all of those details, that if they see RTD supporting the policy and the
suggestions that they're making that that's what they're looking for. But again, I can't really speak to it.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, I would say that there's-ERIK DAVIDSON: OK-TROY WHITMORE: --that those details are not fleshed out yet, Director Davidson. And that's part of the
Working Group. And I would hope, to Director Lewis' point, many points, that's our job to take it from the
recommendation if we accept it or not and to construct that. The Accountability Committee has not been
appointed by us, remember. It's appointed by the governor and a couple of pretty powerful legislators.
And we supplement it with as much input as they would take from us, trying to remain third party in
nature. Their job will be done in July. This will not continue. So it will be ours to deal with in how we
structure the working groups and the procedures thereafter.
And I didn't see Miss Snyder shaking her head yes or no on my comments. But please interject if I'm off
track there, Melanie.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you for the comments. My question is coming because I want to make
sure we don't over-prescribe a solution. Because I would say-- and Director Lewis, thank you very much
for your comments about what problem are we trying to solve. I mean, I'm a big believer that a problem
well defined is a problem half solved. So we do need to have a good understanding. And I think many of
the problems that we are trying to solve, in fairness, predate CEO and General Manager Debra Johnson
being here.
And I'd just like to highlight that there are some of those problems. I mean, for example, we have
transportation managers who conversations completely go dead. They don't get responses from RTD on
things. IGAs will sit for years. In Broomfield, for example, we've had Flex Ride service cut and created
travel sheds that are 15 minutes apart that we have riders. And no one's really talking to or engaging with
those riders. There's just some things that are broken and kind of getting lost. And I think that there's a lot
of work that we need to do to just prepare how we're listening to customers, how we're listening to our
transportation managers that are working on these local mobility plans.
So there are some problems to be solved. I've actually spent some time with the cities that I have access
to and can speak with very easily documenting specifically some of those problems. And I will share
some of that information out with you all. And I know I've had a chance to work with some of you on some
of this. But I just don't think we should over-prescribe something here. I think we all agree that the spirit of
this is to work better with our customers, to work better with our local partners, and I want to be very
hyper-aware of the fact that these problems predate CEO and General Manager Johnson. And Ms.
Johnson, please don't take this the wrong way, but this is still pretty new that you just arrived here.

And I think that on the Accountability Committee, we've already seen a change in tone there. Ms.
Johnson has been on all of those calls, at least all the ones that I've had the opportunity to listen to. I think
the Accountability Committee is listening very carefully. And I hear a lot of hope with a lot of our cities that
maybe now is the time that they're going to be heard, that IGAs won't take three years or that there's
going to be an opportunity to share a vision and talk about how our communities are changing as people
move out of Denver or as people move into the Front Range.
So I just want to be aware of that. And my recommendation would be we don't over-prescribe anything,
same as I was saying for the travel shed versus the county, because I just don't think we don't know what
we don't know. And we probably need to prototype some listening sessions, some councils, and kind of
test some things out to do some repair work. So anyway, thank you for giving me the time to speak.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think that's very well said. Let me ask you a question. Are you thinking that
creating these councils is over-prescribing a solution?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I don't know. I'd almost say, if we created the council, maybe we need some flexibility
for a little bit of time to see how it works, and to get some of that feedback to see if we're solving the
problem. So I think defining our problems-- and I'm happy to help with some of the ones that I've written
down-- defining those problems and then testing have we solved them, particularly through the lens of are
we better at addressing our customers' needs, I think would be a good thing to do.
So I'm not necessarily suggesting that the council itself might be over-prescribing. I would just suggest
kind of a high-level spirit of what we're trying to accomplish. We allow CEO and General Manager
Johnson to take a couple of different approaches, maybe even in parallel, to how we solve those
problems. And then we measure early and often how we're doing at solving them. So not necessarily
saying one way or the other whether the councils themselves are over-prescribed. Just some flexibility
might be helpful. And that's why I was curious, is this going to the legislature, or is this a recommendation
that we, as a Board, can determine how to settle the territory.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, it's a good question and one we might take back to the Accountability
Committee. Because unless they choose to continue their work, I think that they are intended to end by
July. And that seems to be what they're aiming for, is to get their final report. And so we, I think, recently
have enhanced our listening process, so putting that out there that there are other ways to do this. And
I'm not sure exactly where to take that at this point, but I think those are good comments and maybe
worth thinking through how we address those.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Well, I think the spirit of what I'm saying is flexibility, I think, would be helpful.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All righty. I see still Director Lewis and Director Cook have your hands up. Is that
intentional? No? Yes? OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just three quick points, I really appreciate Director Davidson's comments, especially
around defining the-- like, I think within the proposal there should be a problem statement so that we
know what it is that we are solving for. That would help me. To his point around providing the opportunity
to do some proofing, I think that's a really good idea. Instead of just saying, here is the solution, maybe
we do a pilot of some sort, to give us the opportunity to prove this out to see if this is even the right
approach. Maybe it's not, maybe it is, but I would hate for us to get in a situation where we see that it's not
working, but because it's been prescribed from the Accountability Committee that we continue to do that.

Back to defining the problem, I mean, one thing that sticks out to me is that there isn't much opportunity
for us to watch General Manager lead because we are solving for things that predated her leadership,
that they are prescribing things currently with a new leader who might have a vision or who might have
improved on some of these things. But because she wasn't here when this bill was being talked about-- I
think it's important to name that we aren't really giving our General Manager the opportunity to lead as it
pertains to this. And she is-- and I'm speaking for her, so forgive me, General Manager, but I just feel like
I should say this. And she is being prescribed solutions to things that I believe she has, one, the
intelligence, the brilliance, but also the expertise and the experience to be able to fix. But the
accountability doesn't have the room for that. And so I really appreciate Director Davidson's comment
about flexibility, because I think that's needed.
And then finally, a question that I have for you, Director Guissinger, is the cost for the subregional service
councils. How much will it cost to staff these councils?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I don't know that-- I don't know. I don't know the cost of the subregional
forums. I mean, I think it's just something that people do as part of what they're doing. And the LCCs and
the TMAs and the customers may be a different question. But I don't know what the cost would be. I
guess-- I mean, I think these are really good thoughts, all of the thoughts we're getting tonight. And I'm
going to ask General Manager Johnson to speak to them here in just a minute if she'd like, but I see this
in a way as sort of an extension of what Ms. Johnson has started with these early proactive meetings.
And I love the term that these are intended to be evergreen, which is the term she used.
And one way to look at this is this is a more organized forum for getting that information, and for them to
go out and help us get the information working with our communications department, the local
government. And I think that's why Director Cook gave some feedback that we picked up in this sort of
response that is that these groups are working with the Directors, which I think they assumed in the
Accountability Committee, and with the service staff. It's like a more formal group to be getting feedback.
You know, we had those stakeholder meetings recently, and I think Director Dishell or somebody
mentioned that the turnout wasn't great. If you create a group, you're going to get the turnout. And I think
the points that have been made about the LCCs and the TMAs and needing the elected officials, we want
to have the people who plan transit in those areas and transportation. But we also want the riders and the
students or whatever in my opinion. And it is sort of a formalized way of getting that early feedback. Is it
the only way? No. I like the idea of flexibility. But I think their goal was the same goal that General
Manager Johnson is looking for and that we've all been looking for, which is to help our constituents have
a bigger voice earlier on. Ms. Johnson, do you have some comments?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would just say in relationship to the discussion that ensued, there has been some
very valid points that have been discussed here. If anything recognizing the staff time, I think that would
be difficult to quantify, not recognizing what these councils will look like. Because as I said, I do have
experience, but it was somewhere else. And it did require a lot of staff time in that regard. But that was
composed a little differently in a sense, and recognizing that as described here, the intent is somewhat
different to have input on service planning, whereas before was input on overall transit operations and a
myriad of different things.
The one thing that I would say is this dialogue has been good, and trying to figure out-- and I'll leave that
to the Chair, but since you asked for my opinion-- trying to figure out how this is synthesized in such a
way where it can contain all of the great dialogue that has germinated, and recognizing that it needs to be

consolidated in such a way where you all, as a 15 member body and 14 currently at the time in which this
discussion has ensued-- can come together and say, OK, we collectively as this body supports A, B, and
C, or is it X, Y, and Z.
And then also to the point that was raised, recognizing that there is a certain level of acumen as it relates
to transportation systems management, but there is a difference between planning and transit service
planning and recognizing that there is going to be amalgamation of all these different things. The subject
matter expertise still rests with the staff that we have here that does transit service planning. Within our
backyard, there are not a lot of transit agencies in this region. And so when we talk about that, while I am
not dismissing the transportation planners that are within our region, there is something very differently
between doing a run cut. There is something very different when you're looking at blocks and run for a
schedule and somebody needs to take a paddle. And I'm using this terminology intentionally because not
everybody understands that nomenclature.
So when we talk about we can come together and this person can opine on this, that, and the other,
recognizing that you may have a certain vehicle assigned to a block, you can't just move that to and fro at
the drop of a dime. So those are the kind of things that I'm taking into consideration as I heard some
comments about policy aspect in reference to having elected leaders, having constituents. But then
again, we do not want to cut off our nose to spite our face when it comes to the core business of moving
people and having the ability to do it in such a way where we are providing service to the vast amounts of
people to this region within a transportation network of which is beneficial to this entire region, more
specifically it can be to the state and to the country as a whole.
So I think those are just really synthesized comments from what I've gleaned. And I've appreciated the
discussion here. And I look forward to what we do with all of this and how this is summarized in such a
way where it can be relayed to those on the Accountability Committee recognizing that there are transit
professionals that have an understanding, but recognizing that we can't do it alone and we need to have
input, and knowing that it has to be cooperative and collaborative to get to that point. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I mean-- Director Guissinger, you're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That is a big challenge, is how to synthesize this. And I think, great
comments. Director Lewis, I'm not sure if you're finished.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just two-- a comment and a question. The Accountability Committee, the equity
assessment mission statement, that was included in our packet but I wasn't really sure what that was, if
you could just take a minute to explain the connection to the subregional service councils. Or is there not
a connection?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I apologize that it was attached. And I went ahead and included it. That was the
other point I was about to make, which is that there will be an equity assessment from the Accountability
Committee on this proposal and all their proposals. And they decided at the last meeting that it would be
Mile High Connects working with their consultant that will do the equity assessment. I'm not sure the
timing on that. But that's why I added the sentence that said that we're looking forward to seeing the
equity assessment, because you raise some very good issues around Title Vi and how that plays into
some of this.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks. I appreciate that. And then the final comment that I have for you, Director
Guissinger, is as we are thinking about-- as the Accountability Committee is thinking about these
recommendations, it would be helpful if they might think about what the financial impact might be to the

organization. So I would like to see within the final recommendations the cost of the implementation of
the-- I guess they would be proposed costs-- of the implementation of said recommendations. Because I
think that's important for us, as Directors, to deliberate with and understanding how much these things are
actually going to cost us to implement. And that's it. I'm done, I promise. I won't raise my hand again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, that's good. That's a very good question, too. And I kind of went back to the
idea of what the details are and how it's set up, because if this is a group that's meeting quarterly and is
meeting with our service staff-- you know, quarterly, that's not a heavy lift in my opinion. I think the service
staff is starting to look, and Ms. Johnson are starting to look at continuing stakeholder meetings anyhow.
So this would kind of take-- but if it's something that's much more often, it could be a heavy lift. So I think
those are good questions-- and again, why I think leaving as many of the planning pieces to RTD and the
stakeholder group makes the most sense.
So I agree with Ms. Johnson synthesizing all of this into something. But I guess my best shot at that
would be to suggest that we try to do that and bring something back to the Board April 6 probably. Ms.
Johnson, do you have any different recommendation on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: One thing that I would qualify, recognizing that this is an effort, I would say, that on
March 9, I-- what I'm trying to say is I was planning to have a discussion on April 6 as related to the road
to recovery. And my intent is really to bifurcate the discussion with the Accountability Committee, because
as I was sharing with some members of the Board, I believe-- and I said this at the last meeting-recognizing that we would be looking at our road to recovery. If the accountability didn't exist. And I don't
want those waters to be muddied. So with that as a backdrop, recognizing that this is important, I could
move my discussion to an alternate meeting. So April 6, if that works for you, that's fine. Because I do
think there's going to be additional discussions that are needed, and that's two weeks from today.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess let's talk about it and see if we can tie something together and get it out to
the Board and find some General agreement on it. It would be nice to go ahead and move forward on the
road to recovery discussion as well. So if everybody's OK with that, I would say TBD, that we'll work with
the Chair and the General Manager and see what we can put together. Seem OK? OK. Great.
Any other matters? No? All right. Do we have a motion to adjourn?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Buzek, second. All right. All in favor?
ALL: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Great discussion. Good night.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Good night.
MELANIE SNYDER: Good night. Thank you.

