Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, July 1, 2008
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

July 1, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, July 1, 2008 at 5:37 pm.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Quinlan, Directors; Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck, Juanita Chacon, Bill
Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Bill
McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer and Barbara
Yamrick.
Chris Martinez

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Marla Lien, Dave Genova, John Shonsey, Kevin
Diviness, Mike Turner, Bill Nadine Lee, Pauletta Tonilas, Jerry Nery, Scott
Reed, Nadine Lee, Rick Clarke, Mark Baudermann, Sherry Ellebracht, Jenny
Barkett, Jeff Cluphf, Reed Lee, Susan Altes, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News, Cody
Wertz – GBSM, Andy Mountain – GBSM, Roger Sherman – CRL, Blake
Pendergrass – FRESC, .
****

Call to Order

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 5:37 p.m.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, July 1, 2008
Page 2

1.

Recommended Actions:
Marla Lien, General Counsel discussed the two action items together but indicated that
they will be voted on separately. The following is the summary she gave for the first
item.
The four partner agencies that that worked together to acquire, Master Plan, and
manage Denver Union Station (DUS) are the City and County of Denver, RTD, the
Denver Regional Council of Governments and the Colorado Department of
Transportation.
Together they solicited a master developer, Union Station
Neighborhood Company (USNC) and agreed upon a proposed development plan for
transportation, public spaces and vertical development. The transportation plan
elements and public spaces are estimated to cost over $200 million more than was
budgeted in the FasTracks program. Together the entities have obtained and/or agreed
to contribute federal highway funds, federal transit funds, Colorado Senate Bill 1 funds,
a mill levy from a to be formed Metropolitan district, tax revenue from a tax increment
financing (TIF) district and FasTracks funds. The Authority will be created as an
independent non-profit with the powers of a corporation (but not a government)
including the power to issue revenue bonds payable from the combined sources of
revenue. Proceeds of the bonds will be used to fund the transportation project and
public spaces. Federal tax law requires that the forming entity names a majority of
directors to the Board, and on dissolution acquires the Authority’s remaining assets. It
is anticipated that RTD will, through its payments, obtain the transit assets from the
Authority so that if the entity dissolves after bond payoff, RTD will own those assets.
RTD will not be transferring title to the fee under the transit assets to the Authority.


Authorization to Appoint RTD Representatives for Denver Union Station Project
Authority
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Chairman of
the RTD Board of Directors appoint two RTD representatives to the Denver
Union Station Project Authority (the Authority) Board of Directors. The
Authority will be a non-profit corporation formed under the authority of the City
and County of Denver for the purposes of issuing revenue bonds, receiving
revenues and paying expenses for the Denver Union Station project.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
approve the recommendation and forward
to the July 15, 2008 Board Meeting
agenda.

Director Chacon seconded the motion.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, July 1, 2008
Page 3
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:


The motion passed unanimously.

Conveyance of Easements to the USNC for Purpose of Creating Denver Union
Station Metropolitan District
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the General
Manager be authorized to convey five easements or leases to USNC or its
designees for the purposes of creating elector’s parcels for an election for the
formation of the Denver Union Station (DUS) Metropolitan Districts (the Met
Districts) which will include a management and four taxing districts. A TABOR
election will also be held. The Met Districts will be authorized to establish mill
levies for payment of debt service for capital projects and for their operation and
maintenance at DUS.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to
approve the recommendation and forward
to the July 15, 2008 Board meeting
agenda.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:
2.

The motion passed.

Updates:


Bus Maintenance Facility Site Analysis Review and Recommendation
Dave Hollis, Planning Technical Services Manager, discussed this item with the
board. He presented it in the form of a Power Point Presentation.
The Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) planned to be constructed at
Platte Division. In evaluating Platte the following was taken into consideration:
Available right-of-way (ROW) to house 300 buses in one or two facilities, Total
costs not to exceed $74.9 million budget, Total renovation costs/useful life,
Maintenance of operations during reconstruction/renovation and impact to
adjacent property owners. As a result of the evaluation it was determined that
new construction and renovation of existing facilities was not feasible due to
size of CRMF. The recommended option is to relocate off-site which will allow
for most aggressive CRMF construction schedule – open 2nd quarter 2013.
Once alternative sites were determined the following criteria was looked at:
adequate acreage to house facility, be less than 3-mile drive from DUS to
accommodate Mall Shuttles, Industrial zoning, avoid hazardous waste sites,
match local jurisdiction’s land-use plans, avoid parkland and residential areas,
good local access as well as access to major roadways, close to major bus
routing to minimize diversions and deadhead, not be located within 100-year

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, July 1, 2008
Page 4
floodplain and within budget of $74.9 million.
Dave then went on to discuss the 25 potential locations and gave reasons for
elimination.
There were three recommend sites- 70th @ Broadway, I-76 @ Pecos (East),
SWC I-70 @ I-25 (Denver Post).
Staff recommendation is to construct 300-bus maintenance facility including
mall shuttles on site 8: SWC I-70 and I-25.
Next Steps:
June of 2008 – Conceptual layout of facility
July of 2008 – Construction cost estimate
July of 2008 – Conduct additional environmental work: traffic, air quality, noise,
hazmat
June of 2009 – Possession of property
July of 2009 – Obtain City permits
Aug 2009-July 2010 – Construct Facility
Aug 2010 – Relocate Platte functions to new site
Nov 2010 – Demolish Platte Bus Division
Nov 2010-June 2013 – Construct new CRMF
Cal Marsella, General Manager indicated that this will go out to the public through
the public hearing process.
Director Barbara Brohl asked staff to please take in to account not just the zoning
but also the zoning around it and how it will affect the residents who live in the
neighborhood.
Director Daly was disappointed about the selection of sites – he would have liked to
see the bus barn be taken further out.


Review of Request for Qualifications for the P3 Project
Jenny Barket, Associate General Counsel gave the board an overview of this
item.
The first item discussed was the schedule – please refer to Power Point
Presentation for detailed schedule.
Concessionaire will provide: Design/Build, Operation and Maintenance and
Finance. For specifics on each item – please refer to Power Point Presentation.
RFQ will be for core BDFOM Team and will require evidence of: financial
strength, experience in design, construction and maintenance of railroad,
experience in design and delivery of rail cars, experience in operating rail transit,
plan of how they will manage deliver of complete scope on time within budget,

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, July 1, 2008
Page 5
and commitment to DBE and SBE goals to be established by RTD in the RFP.
Responses to RFQ are due October 3, 2008. Staff will discuss and provide
recommendation based on the findings. Anticipate bringing recommendation to
board in November 2008. Plan to short-list no more than 4 highly qualified
teams.
Next Steps:
Summer 2008-Stakeholder Involvement in RFP
End 2008-Draft RFP for review by industry
May 2009 – Issue RFP
Late 2009 – Technical Proposals due
Early 2010 – Final Selection of preferred bidder.
Director John Tayer asked if there was an opportunity for bidders to merge
together and join forces. Jenny indicated that yes, they have the opportunity to
make a change after they take feedback – they do have an opportunity to make
their team stronger.
Cal indicated that we will control all scheduling and fares.
Dave Genova summarized security on control and monitoring – Develop a very
tight specification similar to what we have now. We would still oversee – there
will be a centralized dispatch system – within that facility there will be a control
and dispatch – over all systems.


Review of Revised TOD Strategic Plan
Bill Sirois, Manager Transit Oriented Development, presented this item to the
board. He discussed the existing RTD TOD Policy, the existing TOD Strategic
Plan and gave the rational for updating the TOD Policy and Strategic Plan.
The highlights of changes are:
o Emphasize that RTD can only acquire property for transit purposes
o Eliminate references to “land banking”
RTD’s joint development objectives are to:
o Increase Ridership, improve
o Improve RTD’s transit facilities & infrastructure
o Enhance overall quality of transit experience
Clarify RTD’s role in affordable housing TOD
o RTD does not develop housing, but is committed to working with local
communities to locate affordable housing with direct access to transit
o Local jurisdictions control land use and housing policy
Important Dates:
August 8, 2008 – Comments due from Board and Outside Stakeholders
August 22, 2008 – Develop revised final draft of TOD Policy and Strategic Plan
September 2, 2008 – Discussion of final revised draft of TOD Policy and

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring meeting held on Tuesday, July 1, 2008
Page 6
Strategic Plan with Board at P&D Committee
September 16, 2008 – Proposed Board adoption of final revised TOD Policy
and Strategic Plan.
John Tayer requested the document be e-mailed to the board.
3.

Other Matters
Director Bill Christopher – asked when the board can expect a next cost estimate on
FasTracks. Cal answered late July timeframe and indicated that there are two pieces
that are critical are cost and revenue projection.
Director Barbara Brohl – thanked the press regarding the article in Sunday’s paper
on the transit paradox.

4.

Next Meeting Date
The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday, August 5, 2008
at 5:30 p.m.

5.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 7:18 pm.

