2022-11-01
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Nice to see you all this evening, and welcome to the Finance and Planning
Committee. We will now come to order, and we are convened as of 5:30 PM. I would respectfully ask
everyone attending the meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that we will continue under the current circumstances
to hold our meetings of the RTD Board of Directors and committees remotely in the interest of public health,
safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be
held via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. Please visit RTD-Denver.com to access all meeting
recordings and unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hands and wait for me to call on you before proceeding to
speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they
would like to speak by pressing star 9. You can toggle your mute settings on your phone by pressing star
6.
I will now go ahead and call the roll, starting with committee members. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present. And I am here. That is seven committee members present, zero absent. We
have quorum. And for the sake of the record, I would like to note that I also see Director Sloan on the phone.
So thank you for-- or on the line. Thank you for joining us, Director Sloan.

All right. We're going to go ahead and move into the public comment period. We'll open up public comment
to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic that's listed in the published meeting
agenda for the current and for the immediate preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already
done so, you can raise your virtual hand with star 9 on your phone or virtual hand on Zoom. Staff will unmute
you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in by phone, you can press star fixed to toggle the mute
settings.
Please bear in mind that if you participate in this process, you will be recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then please submit your comments in writing. If any speaker has any documentation or reference
materials for the committee, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments, please
email those materials to the Board Office at our RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer any comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to followup. Speakers
should begin their remarks by stating their names and each speaker will have 3 minutes to speak. I can
check the queue here.
Ms. McManus, do we see anybody in the queue? I'm not seeing anybody with their hand raised at this time.
Right. I'm not hearing anything there. I'll go ahead and-BARBARA MCMANUS: Can you hear me, Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, I can.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry. I was having problems with the audio on my computer, so I'm operating
on my phone right now. There are no one-- there are no speakers in the queue and there were no emails
sent to the email box.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Well, thank you very much, Ms. McManus. Much appreciated. With no other
participants in the queue and with no participants with the email comment, we'll go ahead and close out the
public comment period. This evening, we also do not have any information from external entities.
There are four recommended actions this evening. The first action is with respect to the 2023 proposed
budget. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt a resolution for 2022 for the adoption of the 2023 budget,
resolution number to be determined, series of 2022 for the 2023 budget appropriation, and resolution
number to be determined series of 2022 for the appropriation of 2023 previously appropriated capital. Do
we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The mover is Director Whitmore. The second is Director Cook. And I would like to note
for the record that I see Director Tisdale has joined us as well this evening. So thank you, sir, for joining us.
We have a motion and a second, so I'll now ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, as well as Mr.
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager of Budget, to please present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and good evening. I have a short presentation that I'll walk
through. And as the Chair mentioned, Todd Nikkel is joining me to help field any questions. The presentation

is really a recap and to discuss with the committee what has changed since the original budget-- the draft
budget was presented last month.
So let me go ahead and share here. Mr, Chair, can you see a Give Subtitles a Try box?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, I cannot-- oh, yes, I do see that box, yes. I see subtitles.
DOUG MACLEOD: All right. I apologize. Let me-- got these messages popping up. Let me try a different
way to present. OK, let's try this.
OK, as was mentioned, this is the 2023 proposed budget. So just a recap of what we've talked about
previously and what we're asking for this evening. The 2023 through 2028 Mid-Term Financial Plan is a
six-year plan that sets the stage for the development of the 2023 budget. That mid-term financial plan was
approved by the Board in September.
In October, on October 11, we presented to the Finance and Planning Committee a draft proposed 2023
budget, and tonight we're proposing a final 2023 budget for consideration by this committee. There have
been some changes made to the budget in the intervening time. I would point out that staff has posted the
draft budget for public view and inspection on the website as well as made notice in-- as well as the Board
Office posted for view in the Board Office and provided notice in two daily papers by the required deadline
of October 15. We have received no public comments and no questions from external-- from outside the
agency.
So what changes have we made since the draft proposed budget presented on October-- or excuse me,
October 11 as well as the 25 to the full Board? So we have a few schedules that we've added to the budget
document that's included in your package. It includes the reconciliation of the capital carry forward from
2022.
What that is capital projects that have not been completed. Many of these projects are multi-year projects.
In order to appropriate the funding on an annual basis, we carry those additional funds and those
expenditures forward to the new budget in 2023.
It also includes reconciliation and a schedule within the package of the 2022 project expense carry forward.
So unlike the capital expense carry forward, the project expense is considered one-time expenditures that
don't meet the threshold of capital, or they could be expenditures for items that are not assets that RTD
actually owns. So we've included that schedule as well. I'll talk about each of these in later slides.
We've also added an additional investment income of approximately $10 million based on the higher interest
rates and our fund balances that are being invested at the current time as well as a schedule that has a
reserve reconciliation, and I'll speak to those in a few moments as well. So the resolution contained in the
packet contains two resolutions. One is for the appropriation of $1.6 billion as well as $567 million in capital
carry forward.
So just to touch on a few of these items, what has changed since the October presentation of the draft
budget? The top line item, operating expenses, increased $33 million from the original draft budget. The
primary reason for that was there were a couple of additions, number one being an additional request to
contribute additional funding to the pension plan, the salary pension plan, as well as a line item, a $2 million
line item for a battery electric bus facility study. I'll talk about that more in a few moments, but that new
number for operating expenses excluding depreciation is $816 million.

There are some additional expense carry forward projects in there. Again, those are projects that were
expenses operating expenses in 2022 that will not be fully completed by the end of this year. Funding and
the expenditures will be carried forward into to 2023.
Debt payments and interest payments, both those numbers, those did not change. $252 million is scheduled
to be paid in 2023. New capital expenditures, there's also a schedule included in the packet detailing out
the line items for the $75.9 million in new capital expenditures. Approximately 2/3 of that expenditure is for
new buses and State Highway 119, and then the rest of it's really several different projects. I'd be happy to
discuss those at the end if anybody's interested.
And then further beyond that, we have the FasTracks Internal Savings account and the remaining operating
reserves, capital replacement fund, Board appropriated fund, and unrestricted reserve. So of that $1.6
billion, the $1,634,435-- these are all in thousands-- that number contains about $516 million of reserve. So
we asked the Board and the committee to appropriate that funding for those reserves so it remains in place,
and that's its intended use. So approximately a third of that appropriation request is the reserves, which are
incidentally all at the Board's discretion of how to appropriate and use that funding.
Previously approved capital, that's a very large number, 500 and almost $68 million in capital carry forward.
Just to give you a high level indication of what's in that number, approximately 63% of that is related to
FasTracks and completing projects on the FasTracks side. So all those FasTracks carry forward amounts
of $360 million have already been funded, so we have restricted reserves set aside to pay for that.
So that's a big chunk of that. We're still going to continue to reconcile these carry forwards as we move
forward in the attempt to put everything in alignment with the strategic plan, so some of those numbers will
change going forward. That is a large number. Approximately 20% of that is related to bus and rail, mostly
fleet replacements. So $112 million, again, this is all in the schedule if you care to look at it in more detail.
And the remaining 17% is a variety of projects all detailed out, ranging from small to medium sized, and
those have to do with facilities, equipment, and other projects. So all in all, we're asking the committee to
approve a total district wide appropriation of $2.2 billion.
You've seen the schedule in the last presentation. A few of the numbers have changed, you may notice,
and I'll just point out a couple of those numbers. Revenue essentially remains virtually unchanged. Again,
we added a little bit of money for investment income, protected investment income, about $10 million, and
then there's a few million more than as we reconciled some of the grant revenue, so very close to what was
presented before and also very close to the 2022 amended budget.
Moving down into operating expenses, line 6 through 13, a few changes there. I mentioned the contribution
to the Defined Benefit Pension plan on the salaried side. The actuary had recommended $8.5 million.
Several discussions had amongst the trustees and most notably one just last week, including Board
members Director Catlin as well as Director Broom, to discuss given the situation with investment returns,
the economy, et cetera, did it make more sense at this point in time to look at putting in additional funding
to that over and above the annual required contribution recommended by the actuary. Knowing that we
didn't want to pull money out of those investments with both the stock and the bond market being down,
the money from the trust will be pulled out to pay benefits to those beneficiaries.
So after much discussion, we arrived at a number of $15 million as opposed to $8.5 million. That was
unanimously recommended. The $15 million was arrived at because on average in an average year there's

approximately $5 million that's taken out of the fund. So if I retire from RTD and I'm in the pension fund, I
have the opportunity to cash out my contributions and exit the fund completely. So that's the average.
So $5 million of that comes from the average cash out, so we want to be able to fund that rather than pulling
out investments while they're at a rather low point. The other $10 million was essentially based on the $8.5
million plus a little bit more just to make sure that that difference, the full $10 million plus $5 million, would
cover on average what we expect to be paid out in benefits as well as cash outs. So that would leave that
fund with the ability to not sell any investments at a low point to pay benefits, but rather rely on this $15
million funding. So I just wanted to make that clarification that there's an additional $7 and 1/2 million in
salaries and benefits to get us up to $15 million contribution.
We don't anticipate that being necessary in future years. We would go back to the annual contribution. That
Defined Benefit Pension plan is closed, so over time that required contribution will drop off to next to nothing,
and then finally 0 with the last beneficiary. So we thought it might be prudent as trustees to go ahead and
put some additional funding in there at this point in time.
The other item I'd like to point out is in row 7. We had a placeholder in-- the materials and supplies is where
we tracked parts as well as gasoline and diesel fuel. General Manager Johnson had procurement under a
diesel fuel contract, again, very prophetic because last year the same thing happened. We entered a diesel
fuel contract right at the right time of the market. We were able to lock in at $2.30 a gallon before fuel prices
really went high.
Again, the diesel fuel is very volatile at the current time. There's a lot of discussion about diesel fuel reserves
and diesel fuel availability really becoming a big concern nationwide. We were able to lock in that contract
at $2.94 per gallon in 2023, still an increase over 2022 of approximately $4 and 1/2 million. And again, it's
only about 2% of our expenditures. However, with that volatility, we want to have some budget certainty,
so good numbers there on the fuel side.
And then finally, I'd like to mention in row 8. We also added $2 million to outside services. That $2 million
is budgeted to perform a study for a facility for battery electric bus. So we do have a placeholder in there.
We don't know what the exact cost is, just the back the napkin estimate was $2 million. We might need to
come back to the Board to discuss that further once we get additional details about what that true amount
is, but at least we have it budgeted at this point in time.
So all in all, I take you down to the bottom line, row 19, again, a negative net cash flow of $31.6 million. So
you can see that it's the same reason. We're paying for that overage of expenditures over revenues with
fund balances, and that was anticipated, mainly due to state of good repair and other projects that are within
those operating expenses.
So just quickly, I'd like to discuss our projected reserve positions for 2023. FasTracks Internal Savings
account, we have a schedule. That savings account was put in place by the Board several years ago, in
2013 I believe, with the intent of growing that fund in order to complete additional FasTracks projects. Some
of the funding has been used along the way, not huge amounts, for things like additional funding for the city
project when that was happening. But that fund is projected to be at $168.9 million by the end of 2023.
Again, that's at the Board's discretion as to how to use that.

The Board appropriated fund, we're keeping that static. That was set up as well as at the time the Board
desired to have a specific fund that wasn't necessarily earmarked for an intended purpose, but to have a
fund from which to draw in case of new initiatives or emergencies.
Capital replacement fund looks relatively low. That's because it shows a year end balance each year, so
$34.9 million projected at the end of 2023. What you don't see in that number between it going from $12.9
million to $34 million, there's a whole bunch of funding going in there, but then it's coming right back out to
the state of good repair needs. So we'll still have some money left at the end of 2023.
And within the Mid-Term Financial Plan, you may recall that we did have enough funding, and that's where
it's coming from to keep up with our state of good repair needs. So it will go up and down each year as it
gets funded, money taken out. It's a good thing for RTD because we don't have to borrow money, especially
in this high interest rate environment, to make those improvements, where in the past, we would issue
certificates of participation in particular to purchase equipment and vehicles.
The operating reserve is $204 million projected. That's three months of operating reserves. And then finally,
the unrestricted fund of $56.9 million, that's what's projected to be left over in available funding once all
these other above reserves are funded. So additional $56.9 million gives us a little additional flexibility.
In the Mid-Term Financial Plan, we project that to go down to 0 as kind of continue to fund the other funds
and then take care of our state of good repair and other expenditures. So all in all, total reserves of $516.4
million. So this is the highest we've ever been here at RTD in terms of reserves. Some of that is due to
growth, but we're much better shape than we've been in the past, and do have the ability to be agile and
also deal with unexpected economic downturns.
And Mr. Chair, that concludes my remarks, and Todd and I would be happy to take any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Mr. MacLeod. Very much appreciated. At this time, I'll go ahead and ask
Directors who have questions to please raise your virtual hands, and I'll go ahead and call on you in turn.
Any questions?
All right. Seeing none. Oh, a few questions. Dr. Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Doug. That was-- the materials in the packet were super helpful in
terms of what I'd asked for before in terms of sort of seeing the background and the presentation. Just a
quick question. I was thinking that we had budgeted-- and I didn't get a chance to go back and look at it-- a
lower number on fare revenue because of the fare inequity study. But reading through this, it looks like the
8.8% that this budgeted lower was due to changing our ridership projections, that we don't think they'll come
back as quickly. Did we-- am I remembering that correctly? Are we budgeting based on some change from
the fare inequity study?
DOUG MACLEOD: Great question, and you are remembering correctly. However, that reduction in fares
was going to occur-- we projected it to occur in 2024 once the fare study was done. So in 2023, the only
impact to fares that we're projecting is to right size our ridership. The average fare per rider is still projected
to be the same as it was in 2022, so the full amount of the decrease in 2023 is due to lower ridership. Then
with the culmination of the fare study and possibly fare changes going into 2024, we had projected the
average fare provider to go down by approximately 20%, but not until after this coming budget year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And just out of curiosity, is that because the fare study will last that long? Or are we
just wanting to start it off in the next fiscal year?

DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson may be-DOUG MACLEOD: Oh, Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No. Please, I'll yield the floor to Mr. MacLeod. If I can supplement, I will. Please
proceed, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Oh, thank you. Yeah, just quickly I was just going to mention that not necessarily, we
don't exactly have a time for that yet, but we do remain agile. Frankly, even if it were, let's say, mid-year
that we put something in place, we'd only have half a year of a 20% decrease, which would be relatively
immaterial, $4 to $5 million. So we have the ability to adjust accordingly, and I don't think it'll be too punitive,
depending on when we put that in place.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. And Doug, just a quick question. On packet page 31, we get the head
counts listed. When you presented the draft budget, I think I asked about the numbers of post certified
officers that we might see with the increase in the police chief's budget. And I thought you said 40, that we'd
be seeing 40.
Are we actually able to hire 122? Or how does that compare to the current and the draft budget? I mean,
how does that compare to our current headcount? And is there a change since the draft budget? This is on
packet page 31.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you for the question. Essentially, we did not have that-- I don't believe we
have that broken out, regardless. The transit police, at least, the 122 includes existing team members. So
it's not simply, or it's not only just police officers. They also have dispatch, they have supporting staff, et
cetera, so the anticipated increase in 2022-- excuse me, 2023 is 40 new officers. So approximately 82
positions exist at the current time.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. That's wonderful. At some point, maybe I can get with you. Or I don't know if
it's something you have that you could provide to the Board, but there are so many somewhat sizable
amounts left in that FasTracks carryover fund, and we some of us haven't been here long enough to know,
for example, what Federal West is and that money. Maybe at some point I could get with you about some
of the more sizable amounts and what they represent in unfinished work or what the status of those are for
the carry forwards, if that would be OK.
DOUG MACLEOD: Absolutely, any time. And as I mentioned, we still have some work to do to go through
those. And some of these are old carryovers. We do have a policy to only carry over capital expenditures
if there's no activity for three years, at which point in time we would eliminate them or at least discuss with
the project manager and internally if they need to be carried over. We try to do a pretty good job of closing
out projects once they're completed.
FasTracks, there was so much activity in such a short period of time and large transactions that we didn't
want to close out projects just yet until we have a really good chance to go through those in detail. But yes,
I'd be happy to discuss those with you at any time.

SHELLEY COOK: Super. That's all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. And Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Given the tightness of the labor market, how much vacancy savings do
you project we'll see for 2023? And will those savings go to the FISA account?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And I'm going to ask Todd if he can tell me what the number was we used.
Typically in the past what we've done is we've kind of used an average run rate in that. Prior to COVID and
all the new difficulties that we're encountering with hiring, it was approximately 2% to 3%, I think, on
average. 2% to 3% of wages were anticipated to be vacancy savings for turnover, et cetera. But Todd, can
you help me out and tell me what we did with the 2023 budget, please?
TODD NIKKEL: Yes. Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager of Budget. And as of right now, we don't have anything
in there for vacancy savings, and the thought process was we're still at the-- have not yet completed our
compensation analysis. So with further adjustments that are be anticipated, we didn't feel comfortable
putting in a vacancy savings.
Now, what we can do is we can monitor the rate we're hiring. And if we do have vacancy savings through
the first three or four months of the year, we can certainly consider putting back in vacancy savings at the
amended budget, or we can even transfer out some of those vacancy savings to some other area where
we need it. But the thought was, with the compensation analysis not complete, it didn't seem-- we weren't
comfortable putting in vacancy savings not knowing-- we usually base it on historical, and right now we
have no vacancy savings. Even though we have vacancies, a lot of those that savings from those vacancies
has been absorbed by increases to salaries that was beyond what we thought it might be.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thanks, Todd. Note to that comment, too, Director Broom, to answer the second part
of your question. It wasn't we haven't planned to put additional funding on top of what's already planned for
the FISA using vacancy savings. When the FISA was set up, it was-- the funding inflows were very specific
as to what would go into that FISA fund, including the difference between what was projected in the original
FasTracks plan.
The original FasTracks plan had contemplated 1% growth in ridership every year, to which FasTracks
would-- 1% growth in bus service every year due to growth in ridership. And since buses mainly is primarily
a base system service, FasTracks is contemplated in the financial plan to pay the base system for that bus
feeder service. Well, approximately-- it was probably, I think it was right in 2013 frame when the FISA was
set up, one of the directions from the Board at the time was to use any differences between the actual CPI
increase in costs associated with that in this original plan.
And it happened the plan was pretty well overstated in terms of that growth, so that difference is what's
been contemplated. It's funding that in addition to certain specific items, such as if there's any land sales.
There were a handful of other items, just unusual, one-time items that could help contribute to the FISA,
but vacancy savings was not one of them.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you. Could we get an update on this after the first quarter? Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Thank you for the answers, Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Nikkel.
Director Dishell, please.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Mr. Chair. Apologies if I missed it. Are we using FISA funds for the state highway
119? And if not, I guess what I'm trying to understand is why not, because it seems like we are depriving
our base system, our buses, our service that serves core ridership for money to just sit there. I know it's a
Board dedicated fund, it's not on you guys.
But to me, state highway 119 is a part of that BRT route. That was a part of FasTracks. And so why are we
depriving the base system and the bus system and our rubber tire service of funds when we have a whole
balance of money that can only be used for that? I'm just trying to-- can you help me understand that logic?
DOUG MACLEOD: So essentially, the use of the FISA is at the Board's discretion. That's means the Board
makes a recommendation. So it'd essentially be the Board that makes that decision, makes that
recommendation, and the Board members agree to that to use that funding for the specific purposes.
The example I can give is when SERE, Southeast Rail Extension, was brought to the Board. It involved
quite a bit of local funding. There was some additional funding I believe was grant funding as well as local
funding.
At the time, the discussion was, well, we needed the extra money to help build this additional FasTracks
project, which was the intent of the FISA in the original conception of that idea. So some of that funding
was actually used for the SERE extension. Since that time, there's been no initiative by staff or the Board
to put forth a proposal to use any of that funding.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Sirois, please.
BILL SIROIS: I'm sorry. Just wanted to get my camera on. I can't do it there. So I just also wanted to mention
that the state highway 119 project is not a FasTracks, project so it's outside of FasTracks. So those FISA
moneys cannot be used for because those are dedicated FasTracks funds, and my understanding is that
they can be used for that project.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Sirois, for that comment. I appreciate that. I was going to mention
that that's anything that wasn't a part of the FasTracks portion of the budget, the 0.4% could not be used.
Director Dishell, go ahead, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I just-- I want to put a finer point on that because FasTracks had a pretty robust
BRT plan. And just because it didn't have the same specification as the rail network, I don't know that we
should be excluding, unless I'm mistaken and they were defined BRT routes, which it's entirely possible I
am. But if we can get some clarity there. It just seems like we're continuing to sort of shoot ourselves in the
foot for a decision that may or may not-- should or should not have been made a long time ago.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Director Dishell, I'll comment and then call on Mr. Sirois. So it's a good question.
And the FasTracks was for the routes that were specifically called out. What I would mention is there is the
North America-- sorry, North Area Mobility Study, or NAMS, which came out later that does call out state
highway 119. So that is not the same as FasTracks, but that may be the BRT plan that you're thinking of is
that NAM study.
And then I also just did want to mention that the most recent, albeit not very large expense from the FISA
as I understand it, was for the study, for the peak service study that we did to draw on that. Mr. Sirois, you
had your hand up. Was there any further comment you wanted to make?

BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I was just going to basically respond the same thing, that the
state highway 119 was a product of the NAMS effort and was not originally conceived of as part of
FasTracks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you very much. And Director Dishell, it's a great question, I think, and
warrants discussion. There is some discussion around the use of FasTracks funds and the FasTracks plans
in the North Area Mobility Study, or NAMS, certainly worthy of discussion as we go forward and look at the
use of reserves. But thank you for the discussion on that topic.
Great. Thank you, everybody. Are there any further questions regarding the budget? I just would like to say,
Mr. Nikkel, Mr. MacLeod, and the whole team, thank you very much for these materials, for the presentation.
Really helpful how it's organized.
And thank you for touching on the carry forward in particular, and including that and touching on those
percentages from a high level today. I know there's a large number there. I know there's some work being
done, and it's helpful to understand how that's broken out. So thank you for keeping everything so clear
and tight.
And most of all, thanks for the whole team for putting us in a stable position in what's been a difficult time
and what will probably be a difficult time next year. Again, I've said it before, but this is not necessarily a
typical situation to be in from a transit agency standpoint right now, given our funding structure and what
we've gone through, so well done to the team.
All right. Well, with that, I will go ahead and do this by calling for the no votes. I have the mover as Director
Whitmore. The second is Director Cook. Are there any no votes on this action? All right, seeing none. The
motion passes unanimously with seven ayes, zero nos.
Again, thank you to the team. Really, really great work. Looking forward to next year. I'm sure we'll weather
the storms that may or may not come.
All right, we're going to move on to our second action item. This is for the 38th Blake development
negotiation. This is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and/or her delegate to
negotiate and execute an Exclusive Negotiation Agreement, or ENA, with Portman Holdings for the future
lease and development of the real property located at 3800 Wynkoop Street, Denver, Colorado, which will
be referred to as the property. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The mover is Director Guissinger. The second is Director Catlin. I would now like to ask
Ms. Chessy Brady, our Transit Oriented Development Manager to please present this item.
CHESSY BRADY: Great. Thank you very much. Before I jump in, I do want to reiterate what Chair Davidson
just said, that the action here is to authorize us to enter into an exclusive negotiation agreement, which will
begin the negotiation with Portman Holdings, and if everything works out and with a ground agreement and
other agreements as well. So the first thing we're going to do is negotiate how we're going to negotiate, and
then we'll come back a year or two from now to get to tell you what we've negotiated.

So jumping into the actual site, the 38th and Blake Park-n-Ride is about 4 and 1/2 acres located Northwest
of the 38th and Blake station. It was valued at $47 million in March, which is a significant amount for our
RTD properties. We've been talking to Portland Holdings since April 2019, so they've stuck with us through
this the COVID period, and we've been working through our unsolicited proposal procedure with them,
culminating in us releasing an RFQ this past spring and then selecting them over other respondents just in
September.
Their proposal-- and their proposal is quite a bit nicer than the red blocks I've put on the map here, but their
proposal is to ground lease the Park-n-Ride to construct office and multifamily rental project on the site.
They intend to surpass Denver's requirement for affordable housing, so giving more than the zoning
requires. It'll improve access, it will replace our existing 188 transit spaces, and of course, it will and must
meet our operations and maintenance requirements.
To dive into the procedure a little bit-- I feel like I show you this every time I'm here, but so Portman started
their initial request 2019. By now, we're at step six, where, again, we've gone through the RFQ, we've
selected Portman, and at this point, we would like to enter into an exclusive negotiation agreement to
negotiate exclusively with Portman to the exclusion of any other developers. And this is done in part to
protect them from RTD selling or ground leasing the property out from under them, when they will be
investing over the next one to two years significant time, money, effort into moving their concept forward as
we simultaneously devote a lot of effort to reviewing their concept and moving negotiating towards a ground
lease.
So the way that would go is you agree to enter into an exclusive negotiation agreement with them this
month. We negotiate that agreement and execute it early 2023. And then over the next one to two years,
we hash out the details, coming back to the Board every so often to update you and get your feedback, and
then eventually coming back with ground lease terms and other agreements potentially for your approval.
If all goes well, construction begins probably 2025-ish. All of this is very much up in the air, subject to a lot
of variability.
This is part of the Strategic Plan. One of our TOD tactics is to increase revenue. With a $47 million land
value translated to a ground lease, we're talking about a few million a year in ground lease revenues, which,
as per the previous conversation, would go into the FISA.
We have a TOD evaluation guidelines from 2018, and we have been working through these to make sure
that this project is meeting those guidelines. It does meet all of our principles, checks all those boxes, and
it is positively evaluated as far as the factor. So it will increase revenue.
Bringing those offices and residential units to the site will increase ridership. We'll mitigate if not be sure to
benefit the Operations and maintenance. Access will improve, there will be affordable housing, and with a
hopefully stellar project on the site, it will benefit RTD's brand image, and not just in the building itself, but
in our ability to partner with both Denver and with private developers.
So the ENA itself will, again, commit us to negotiating with Portman alone, nobody else, for about two years.
It will address the schedule for how we negotiate and the design requirements they have to meet, the timing
of those. It will address financing and revenues to RTD.
It will do a basic development plan as far as density, land use, and affordability, affordable housing, and
then it will, of course, be clear about RTD's requirements for maintenance and operations and parking
replacement. And part of what the ENA is meant to do is make sure that RTD and Portman are on the same

page heading into negotiations so that we're going in eyes wide open about what each side needs and what
will work, so that we're not-- so we're spending our time wisely and moving ahead with it a true partnership.
So that's all for me. And I'm happy to take any questions. And I think I might be showing you children, which
is just what I did last time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, it's an awesome picture. It's great. I'll go ahead and call on Directors for questions.
And thank you very much for the presentation. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. How many units are we talking about? And are there adequate school
facilities and so forth around there to serve it?
CHESSY BRADY: That's a good question. The number of units will be in the hundreds. Sorry, I am still
trying to figure out how to get my children off of your screen, but I'm failing, so I'm going to give up.
There will be several hundred units. The school facilities, that's really a question for Denver and not
something that we've looked into yet, but it's absolutely something that we'll have to consider with the City
and County of Denver.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Are there other questions, discussion? Right. Well, that was
exciting to see this come along. Thank you for moving this forward. This is really, really great.
I'm going to go ahead and do a roll call vote on this one. So running down the group here, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Me recusing myself from the vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am a Yes. So that is 6 yeses, one abstention for recusing, and 0 no votes. The
motion will move forward. So thank you very much, exciting stuff.

CHESSY BRADY: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We are going to go ahead and move to the third action item of the evening for the
committee. This is with respect to the Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan For the Future. This is for the Board of
Directors to endorse the Reimagine RTD Mobility Plan For the Future, or MPFF. Consistent with the System
Optimization Plan, or SOP, the Mobility Plan For the Future will be reviewed and updated with Board
approval periodically on a no less than triennial basis to provide for a consistent and effective coordinated
policy and vision for service. Do I have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And a second? I have the mover as Director Dishell, the second as Director Whitmore.
Thank you very much. I will go ahead and-- it looks like we're going to have a couple of people presenting,
which may include Ms. Debra Johnson, our General Manager and CEO, Mr. Brian Welch, acting General
Manager of Planning, and Mr. Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, to please present
us with this item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening to you and members of the Board.
I am Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO. And this evening, as you have indicated, Brian Welch,
the Acting Assistant General Manager of Planning, and Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities, join me to provide the Board a presentation on the completed work products that comprise
the Mobility Plan For the Future.
The Mobility Plan For the Future identifies comprehensive forward-thinking strategies to better connect
people to places they want and need to go, and serves as an agency guide map and is fully aligned with a
strategic priorities community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial success.
Staff and I are seeking the Board's endorsement of the plan this evening, as this plan articulates tactical,
strategic, and policy initiatives that require subsequent action by the Board and staff, hence staff's
recommendation for the Board action is to endorse the plan. Next slide, Mr. Welch.
So the topics to be discussed during this presentation include the Mobility Plan For the Future's background.
What led us to this moment in time and what were the goals of this long-term comprehensive operational
analysis? What did we hear and learn from customers, employees, stakeholders, the community, and you,
the Board. And then we will round out the presentation with recommendations for implementation that
spawned from the team's analysis and the public input received. Next slide.
If you could advance the next slide, Mr. Welch. And then the next slide, please.
So before you, Board members, the succinct description of the Mobility Plan For the Future, which is what?
A comprehensive forward-thinking plan that identifies strategies to address the future mobility needs of the
region. The subsequent slides will outline the why and the how. Next slide, please.
So as we look at the question before you on the slide, it's my understanding in 2018 the agency recognized
that surface transportation landscape-- or I should say the surface transportation landscape was in flux and
several efforts were put into play, which came to be known as the Transportation Transformation Initiative,
and hence Reimagine RTD came to be in late 2019. The aspiration for this undertaking is for RTD to be a
relevant part of the region's mobility solution, which includes the agency addressing industry advancements

and societal shifts that are substantially altering how and when people travel, how cities function, and how
mobility options are factored into broader visions and goals. Next slide, please.
In 2021, the Board adopted five-- or I should say six, if I can count-- Guiding Principles of mobility, equity,
financial partnerships, workforce, and sustainability. These principles help shape the primary goals for this
plan, which are aligned with the strat plan priorities. Those goals are understanding and documenting RTD's
long-range financial capacity, identifying RTD's role in responding to 2050 travel demands.
And let me just point that out. It's identifying the role, hence that's why we're asking for the Board to endorse,
as it wouldn't be prudent for us to put forward a recommendation where we're adopting a plan 25 years in
the future. And then as it relates to the subsequent goals, it's clarifying investment priorities and engaging
and building consensus with stakeholders and partners. Next slide, please.
The process that the team followed for this plan was one that was structured but also provided some
flexibility. Key elements included setting the stage, and what that means is assessing what was and is from
an operational vantage point, such as transit services and delivery, capital projects, i.e. FasTracks, BRT,
leveraging forms and committees as well as documentation, such as the RTD Accountability Committee's
work and their recommendations as well as the Board's adopted strategic plan in addition to the region's
mobility choice blueprint.
Secondly, it was Reimagine RTD Guiding Principles, which I just referenced on the previous slide using the
six principles the Board adopted a year and a half ago-- mobility, equity, financial, partnerships, workforce,
and sustainability. Thirdly, customers come first. This aided us in garnering feedback from the public and
stakeholders.
As we look at the fourth aspect of the process, it's the future of transit it consisted of conducting scenario
planning and demand modeling. Looking at the fifth element and evolving role for RTD, we explored several
paths forward, like the agency's service area, bus electrification in this instance, and mobility as a service
as an example.
As we round out with six, fiscal and financial sustainability analysis, we examined financial scenarios. And
then last, but certainly not least, it's RTD's vision in which we as an agency aspire to be the trusted leader
in mobility, delivering excellence and value to our customers and community. Next slide, please.
So this brings us to the question of what will the plan accomplish. Key implementation steps include
implementing a partnership program, collaborating with the Colorado Department of Transportation's local
partners to implement regional bus rapid transit service, developing a zero emissions fleet transition plan.
And let me be clear, as the framework from the electrification aspect of our process, that will provide a
framework which we can then leverage going forward to help inform developing a scope so we can actually
have a transition plan that encompasses every aspect of not just procuring a bus, but changing the way in
which we do business from our facilities as we do run cutting, which means how we service plan and things
that the like.
And then additionally integrating service and modes throughout development of a trip planning and payment
platform, continuing to foster a dynamic, diverse workforce that attracts and retains valued people, that's in
line with our strategic priority of employee ownership. We're continuing to seek opportunities to enhance
transit safety. Quite naturally, that's hand in hand with our public transit agency safety plan, and initiating a
formal effort to collaborate with state and local partners to increase transit funding in the region.

And let me be clear. When we talk about leveraging relationship with state and local partners, first, we're
going to do that at the regional level, recognizing that state representatives are representing the regional
stakeholders, and it will take all of us collectively in order to move the needle as we talk about the investment
at a state level. So with that, I will now pass the baton to Brian Welch, the acting Assistant General Manager
of Planning.
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. And good evening, Chair Davidson and other
Board members present tonight. And before I begin this section that I will divide up with Mr. Sirois, I wanted
to just mention to the Board that your Board packet includes two links that we would regard as compromising
a package we're presenting to you on the Mobility Plan For the Future.
So in addition to this PowerPoint, there is a link you can click on it includes what we call the Executive
Summary, and this is our effort to put forward on a few pages this massive effort that you have watched
over us as we prepared this material. And then in addition, General Manager Johnson showed you that
slide that had all those different elements. And there's another link for you that you can click there and start
clicking around and finding a lot of documentation. Now, everything isn't quite finished yet, but there are
great-- there's a great deal of additional information that we would encourage you to take a look at.
So with that, let me first talk about the start telling a story back in 2019, before a gentleman in Wuhan,
China identified a pretty troubling upper respiratory disease, we were looking at boardings of 340,000 to
350,000 boardings a day. And when we looked at Reimagine RTD and we compared that to where DRCOG
anticipated we would be by our horizon year of 2050, we thought, well, 340,000 to 350,000, getting up to
600,000, it's a lot, but it seemed reasonable to us.
Now, with the advent of the global pandemic and our boardings dropped in 2020 considerably, where our
boardings now are in the 220,000 to 230,000 boardings, I believe. But at any rate, if you look at the
population growth within our district and the number of boardings that that could imply, that's a big part of
why we did Reimagine RTD. We need to be prepared in all those areas of uncertainty to position ourselves
the best we can to deal with them, not in a reactionary manner, but actually to state clearly how we're going
to work with our customers, our stakeholders to get ourselves to where we need to be.
We also spent a great deal of time doing long-range financial forecasting. As you heard earlier from our
finance professionals, the district has found itself in very strong position for the next few years. And we
anticipate that that will change, though, in the future because our cost structure and our ability to meet the
demand of 600,000 boardings is likely to outstrip our current revenue structure. We can go into more detail
on that subsequently, but this was a major theme that we discovered during Reimagine RTD. And in fact,
when we tell you more about our aspirations and our opportunities, they will be temporally based, but they'll
also going to be financially based, predicated on how much revenue we are able to incrementally add to
our revenue base.
We've looked at a number of different topic areas. Previously at the Board, we described to you how we're
moving forward with our partnership program. The Subregional Service Councils are going to meet later
this week, as a matter of fact, where we're going to introduce our approach that we described to you. This
just gives you a feel for the breadth and scope of what we've tackled on this project. We'll be more specific
later on some of the aspects of this that we would like you to endorse, but just wanted to, again, indicate
the ambitious things that we've tackled that you can start discovering by following those links that I
described to you.
And now I'd like to turn it over to Mr. Sirois, who will describe more of the analysis part of this effort.

BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Brian. And to kind of reiterate where Brian started, which was think about three
years ago and where we started with kind of engaging our customers and stakeholders, we were
approaching it as if it was a traditional planning project, lots of in-person meetings, lots of public meetings.
We had to shift, and we had to change our approach during the course of the project, which was an
experiment for us, and I think we're a success. So next slide, please, Brian.
So you can see here with this infographic, we did a lot an extensive and very robust program of outreach.
We had a very active Technical Advisory Committee, Technical Working Group, and then Advisory
Committee that were engaged throughout. We tried to do as best we could with in terms of the public with
engaging on the virtual side, and I think we did a good job, although I think we've learned some things now
that we would maybe do things a little bit differently.
But again, we felt that we did some extensive outreach efforts. And even during, as you all know, during
the System Optimization Plan process, we did kind of pull back and allow the stakeholders to have more
engagement on that project because it was so critical and so fundamental to that effort. So again, we feel
very good about our process and kind of the results. The next slide, please.
So with this, in terms of some of the themes that we heard, a lot of this is reflective of where we're at. That
first one, which is, I think, a direct result of the pandemic, where we had to do the major service cut to start
out, and everybody's wanting that service back. And we certainly heard that throughout.
The other thing I think influenced by the pandemic is serving those who need transit the most. Again, as
we reflect on what we learned through the pandemic, and who was using transit and how much they were
using it, I think that's dead on in terms of what we need to focus on. And some of these other ones, the third
one, I think, is reflective also of where we're at in terms of we've heard a lot recently about reliability issues,
safety or security issues, and we did get a lot of feedback on that. So addressing that again and
understanding, trying to get ourselves in the right-- making sure what we're doing today and what we have
on the ground today works well before we kind of start to add stuff into the future, I think, was kind of a
theme that we heard.
And the next few really talk about the partnership aspect of this. And we've talked about the Guiding
Principle of partnerships. That was certainly key throughout. It's certainly fundamental to the Project
Partnership Program. It's an outcome of kind of Reimagine. But I think it's really that focus on that we can't
do this alone, and we do need to work with others in order to do that.
So I think those are some really important points that we learned and really have driven kind of some of the
recommendations that have come out of Reimagine, in terms of the themes that we've heard from the public
and our stakeholders. So next slide.
So now we're going to get into recommendations. And I'll start off, and then I'll turn it over to Brian. But I
think, if you go to the next slide, I think General Manager Johnson spoke to this earlier, but we look at what
we're trying to accomplish with the Mobility Plan For the Future, how it directly relates to the strategic plan.
The strategic plan, obviously, has established our mission and our vision, and this really takes some kind
of a different step. What are our aspirations? How do we get there? What are some of the things that we
need to do, particularly on some of those key areas that relate to the strat plan and relate to the goals and
Guiding Principles in Reimagine? So move on to the next slide.

So we kind of organized these recommendations into the four different areas. I'm going to cover the first
two, and then Brian's going to cover the last. So the first one being access, obviously, focus on what our
role is in access and us being a mobility integrator, us being that kind of organizer to help with transit as
being a backbone to the mobility system. And we're looking at that and looking at, how do we measure that
in terms of how do we create better connections regionally, and how do we work on that in terms of the
multimodal aspects of our transportation system and our fundamental role in that. Next Slide
And Brian also alluded to this in terms of we're focused on kind of the funding piece of these and how do
we-- with these aspirations, and what are the opportunities under kind of our current funding kind of picture,
and also under a picture with increased funding. Brian did kind of outline the challenges that we have in the
long term on the financial side, and this tries to reflect some of that reality in terms of what we can focus on
now versus focus on if we have more money in the future.
So really, with the access piece, obviously, focusing on a regional system and regional service is important.
The partnership program is critical to creating some of those local connections and using that as a kind of
a vehicle to help with that kind of creating that full picture. I think some of these other ones are important.
In terms of trying to create that making sure their workforce, it's going to be really important for us to improve
access. And then also, obviously, I talked about security and then the use of mobility hubs and transit
supportive development in terms of creating that kind of critical mass around transit and driving access and
ridership. And on the area where we have increased funding, I think it's critical to understand that-- we
talked about in the BRT side, that we are working on some of those priorities already. We're working in
partnerships with [? CDOT ?] and with the City and County of Denver and with the stakeholders up in the
Northwest to really start to implement some of that. But I think what this is really getting at is more of a
much more comprehensive approach that goes beyond some of those initial partnerships and the
partnerships with DRCOG, who's providing a lot of that funding, and how do we get there.
And then beyond that, obviously, in terms of expanding capacity, and that's going to be an area where we
are going to need funding. I think we've talked about that pretty extensively with the Board in terms of where
we're at in kind of that near-term next five years and then kind of where we at kind of in the next 15 to 20
years beyond that, that we do need really more funding if we're really going to truly expand our capacity.
Next slide, please.
So the next element here we're talking about is focused on equity. Again, I think, just to reiterate some of
the things that we've already talked about, we're really here focused on those who need transit the most.
Like I said, we learned extensively through the pandemic that we have as a core set of riders that we need
to respond to and really take care of because they're really important to our system.
Understanding that how we're going to measure that is we're going to look at a couple of different things in
terms of how we're serving them, but also how they're-- what's their satisfaction, looking at satisfaction of
those riders in terms of with the service that they do receive. Next slide.
And with the current funding, obviously, we are going to be focused a lot on the partnership program and a
lot of equity's role in that partnership program. We look to really to try to through that create some impact
and some connections to key destinations. Through the innovative fare programs, which you're going to
hear a little bit later tonight from [? Karl ?] and Chris, and I'll interject as need be. On the fare study, which
I think is you can look at that as a way that we're already doing that. We're looking at ways to innovate our
fares to really to respond to some of where we're at and hopefully create a new fare structure that's more
responsive to the current state of transit.

So on the increased side, looking to improve bus and rail accessibility for all, and we're already have a
couple of different items, again, that we're already doing to set this up. We talked about-- I think it's been
noted, it was in the budget tonight about the level boarding study that we're looking at and we've applied
for DRCOG funds for that. Also, we're looking at a bus stop plan to address how we address ADA accessible
stops throughout our system, I think, is a critical need, and setting that up so then as we get to the point
where we can do more money and we can accelerate some of the things that we would hope to do, start to
do, even if we don't get more money.
So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Mr, Welch. Who was going to take you through the rest of the
recommendations, and then turn it over to Debra to talk about the final implementation steps.
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you. So as I've been thinking about this presentation as we're going through it and
thinking back on the scope of work that we prepared back in 2019, you're probably thinking, well, this is all
fascinating stuff. Many of these things we knew about, and that is correct.
But what we've done over the last three years, and I think has been invaluable, is we have very much
refined listening to our Board, listening to our stakeholders. You have all these different areas. What's your
role. What do you think RTD needs to do?
In sustainability, we heard consistently from our stakeholders, the importance of RTD is a part of the solution
to our climate challenge. Over and over again, people understood that RTD is a big part of the solution to
what everybody is talking about, moving people out of polluting vehicles into our vehicles. The success
metric for us is we want to see people change. We want to see people move out of a polluting mode to
RTD.
Now, the challenge here is people also have aspirations related to our fleet. We've got a very, very big fleet,
as you know, over 1,000 revenue vehicles. We have a mall shuttle fleet that's already battery electric. We're
moving forward with additional battery electric or zero emission vehicles.
But if you looked at the amount of money that it would take to convert us to a completely zero emission
fleet, while that's an aspirational goal, we would not disagree with that. We think anything that is part of the
climate solution is definitely worth pursuing. That's probably something that would be predicated on finding
significant new sources of funds. And I don't even know what a better word is for significant, but it's a giant
number.
But that doesn't mean we shouldn't continue to pursue that path, and we certainly will. And you're going to
hear more and more about that. But Reimagine RTD has set the stage for where we can head in the future.
More will be coming from that in future Board meetings.
So with our current funding sources, there's definitely activity that we will participate in. And then, as I noted,
with increased funding sources we can see dollar for dollar where we can benefit from converting the fleet.
On a financial aspect, as I noted earlier, the big emphasis for Reimagine RTD was to go long-range, to
really take the first look since probably-- it's been a number of years since there was a long-range financial
picture for the District. We know we're still in a bit of an uncertain time, obviously, it's a bit destabilized as
we look at our ridership profile. But where we want to be is obviously where we are right now-- well-funded,
financially stable, recognized as the best steward of the valuable taxpayer dollars that we get, and making
sure that we're in alignment with what the region anticipates from us financially.

Now, with our current funding sources, you know very well-- we've heard about and talked about TABOR
revenue limits that are going to be a near-term challenge for us-- we would like to pursue ways of working
collaboratively with stakeholders. We're not going out and demanding money from people, but we're
certainly looking for ways to leverage resources from others. I think it would be wonderful if the state of
Colorado would-- and I think you're going to see more, perhaps, over the next few years. They're definitely
taking a bigger role right now in bus rapid transit, for example. Those are all welcome ways of making the
pie bigger. We need to make the pie bigger. With increased funding sources, we believe that we could
make the partnership program even more robust and then pursue more system expansion down the road,
which, as you know, could prove to be challenging in the absence of doing that.
So the next slide is just a recap, where we wanted to once again, as we've gotten through this part of the
presentation, remind you of what we want to accomplish with it. So with that, I'd like to turn it back over to
General Manager Johnson, who's going to provide the balance of the presentation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Brian. If you can proceed to the next slide, I'd appreciate that. So
as we look at the implementation aspect of starting off with access, which is defined as RTD is a mobility
integrator that provides a regional transit backbone and partners with stakeholders to call for projects
through the partnership program, modern-day technology for fare payment and collaboration, the
opportunity rests with an improved customer experience, as you can see to the right. Through reliability of
services we showcase value over volume. And so with that, we will yield ridership as well as greater
involvement of local agencies. Going forward to the next slide.
So the opportunities listed on this slide illustrates how RTD can leverage its services and partnerships in
leveling the playing field. You guys have heard me say before, I firmly believe that public transportation is
the great societal equalizer. So as we look at equity, sustainability, and financial, equity, as we define it to
be in this instance, as a mobility provider prioritizing service to those most in need. Keeping that top of
mind, the operative word in what we do is "public." Transit service delivery is a public service, and there
must be equity in the services the agency delivers across its network.
As it relates to sustainability, we have defined that as being a mobility leader that defines and evolves
transit's role through innovation and collaboration. This is so reflective of our current state with zero fare
initiatives and discussions around environmental stewardship. And as we look at financial, we define that
in this instance as being mobility agency that is well funded, financially stable, and serves as a good steward
of taxpayer dollars while supporting regional access, equity, and sustainability.
So looking at the subsets of the opportunities, it is important to note with the financial opportunities that we
will work to bring a heightened awareness. While the bullet before you speaks to state and local partners,
as I said previously, it's inherent that regional stakeholders support us as well as is paramount recognizing
the nexus with state legislators representing regional stakeholders. So the opportunities that you've heard
about this evening are exciting and will enable the agency to move forward in a manner that addresses
shifting of mobility norms using the Mobility Plan For the Future as its guide map. I encourage the Board's
endorsement of this plan.
So that concludes our presentation. Mr. Chair, before I yield the floor to you to facilitate a discussion, I want
to ensure that you all understand that I have sincere appreciation and admiration to Bill Van Meter, the
former AGM of Planning, Brian Welch, Acting Assistant General Manager, Bill Sirois, as well as their teams
and the consultant teams, and those across the agency and service planning as well. So with that, I will
yield the floor to you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for the opportunity to present this evening.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much to the entire team. Really appreciate the presentation and walkthrough of the thinking here. I'll go ahead and call on Directors for questions and discussion. I have a few
thoughts as well. But we'll start with Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thanks so much-- thank you so much for the presentation. Specifically, really
appreciate seeing the delineation between current funding source and if we have more funds. I know that's
something the Board asks for directly. Or maybe it was just me, but I think there were others, too. And so I
really appreciate seeing that come back.
I just wanted one quick sort of clarification, which is, in some of the backup documentation for the Mobility
Plan For the Future, on our transition to zero emission, it exclusively references battery electric buses. But
in the summary slides we just saw, they referenced zero emission vehicles, more of a technology agnostic.
As they are-- which one are we voting on? Is there possible to change the other? I see Ms. Johnson has
her hand up.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. So Thank you very much, Director Dishell, for the question, and recognizing
when this project was leveraged, there were discussions as it relates to battery electric. And in doing so
with this scope of work specifically that the subconsultant is working on, while there were aspects of
hydrogen fuel cell, it's been more or less a framework focused on battery electrification, recognizing that as
we look to go forward with a transition plan this will serve as a framework. So while it's here, and the Mobility
Plan For the Future, for all intents and purposes, we have more of that, keeping in mind I talked about the
flexibility of our process to look at zero emission holistically, and that's what we'll use to inform our scope
as we go forward in the future to ensure that we are looking at the various systems that are available
because at this juncture, we don't know what we don't relative to what might yield greater returns for us as
an agency with our current service area, our facility limitations, and what may be undertaken as we go
forward to ensure we shore that up with modeling and things of that nature.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And just to make sure I'm hearing you correctly, if we were to endorse the plan,
it would be for a ZEV.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Most definitely.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. Thank you. I had another question, but I can't recall it at this moment, so I'll put
my hand down.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We'll be here. Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I would say, Director Dishell, you are way too young for a
senior moment. I can claim one when I forget what I was about to say, but you're way too young for that.
A couple of things. One, I had the privilege of participating in a discussion about this when we had our premeeting with Director Davidson and myself and the staff. And it was-- we had a discussion about the word
endorsement rather than approval, and the endorsement means that we are endorsing your approach and
moving forward, but there will be some flexibility with regard to future approvals and that sort of thing. And
I wanted to say I appreciate that.
But in saying that, I just wanted to make sure that we weren't going to be boxed in, that this is a roadmap
to go forward and the endorsement is just saying, hey, you guys are on the right track and we look forward
to bringing-- having things come in the future. And then I have kind of a picky, little thing I wanted to say.
On packet page 82 and 86, it refers to review of the FasTracks corridors.

And I know I sound like I'm beating a drum over and over again, but it's really a FasTracks plan. And I just
want to make sure that we look at it holistically because in that plan there were recommendations for
enhanced bus service and a number of other things for the system as a whole, and I just don't want us to
lose sight of that at the expense of just the corridors themselves.
So I would just ask that be maybe adjusted to make sure that we look at the entire FasTracks plan. So that
wasn't a question. That was more of a soapbox, but thank you for the time. I appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Catlin. I appreciate both of those comments. And wondering
if Ms. Johnson-- I saw your hand come up with regards to the first portion of the comment-- if you wanted
to make any further comments than those already made by Director Catlin about endorsement versus
approval.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. And Director Catlin hit the nail on the head. That's
exactly what this is. We talk about the flexibility and agility. Quite naturally, as we talk about zero emission
vehicles and so forth, to Director Dishell's point, we have to do a fleet transition plan that will encompass
various aspects, and we would bring that to you all. And so that's the whole point about the framework and
the direction in which we're going, hence the guide map. So thank you very much for those comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much. And thanks for this presentation. I learned a lot going through the
packet yet again. I know you brought it to us before, and I think there's a lot of good planning in this. At first,
I was concerned about the idea of endorsing versus approving, but I understand that. I think that makes
sense.
And I appreciate the reference to the links to the underlying documents. You said it's an executive summary
and also an explanation, and I think that slide that showed a lot of different things you were looking at. Is
there a single document that is linked to that shows the partnerships and all the different pieces? There's
been a lot more presented to the Reimagine team than what we're seeing tonight. Do those links take us
to all those pieces?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Director Guissinger. Mr. Welch, I see your hand is up, if you'd like-BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, if I may. Yes, Director Guissinger, you will find there is a link, for example, to the
consultant presentation on Partnerships Program, which is very similar to the one that we presented to the
Board. So eventually, for almost every identifier on that big page that we showed you-- I got to find out a
good name for that big thing. But you will go-- I mean, there are literally dozens of documents out there.
And the level of effort that went into them from the staff and your consultant team is extensive, and I found
them rich in content.
So yeah, please go out there. And you should be able to find just about-- well, you will find everything that
has been a key feature of the Mobility Plan For the Future, definitely. Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And I also appreciate the looking at the fiscally constrained plan and the
aspirational plan. I think that was something that a number of us were looking at, and I'll go back and look
at where that is. And I'll just say that I think some of us, a couple of us at least, have had a conversation
about how the Board engages that our funding needs and sort of where we're going in the future, even at
a deeper level perhaps. At the retreat, that may be a topic we want to look at.

In terms of-- I guess I could have raised this in the budget, but the partnership plan, the packet page 78
says, top bullet is prioritize the partnership program investments. And I think that we all are committed to
this partnership plan. I'm concerned that the $2 million does not convey that. So my hope is that as you
move forward, you're able to really convey the desire to grow the program, and maybe that's something we
do with the Mid-Term Financial Plan as well. But I think that, as you're moving forward with the local service
councils, that we need to express that, yeah, this is not where we want to be and that we want it to grow.
That's certainly my hope, and I think that's what I'm hearing from all of your team.
And I guess the other thing I would say as you move forward, I appreciated the information that was sent
to us on what the local governments and our local partners contributed to those partnerships. And I think if
you can add that to your presentation, that will help with that process as well.
I like the focus on sustainability. One of the things in there, it says-- and this may be kind of nitpicking, too.
I apologize if it is, but on page 86 of our packet, it said, develop a zero emission fleet transition plan. And I
appreciated the information today that is underway. There's money in it for next year.
It may just be wording, but that sounds like that's the goal. And I think the goal is to achieve a zero emission
transition. And I hear what you're saying, it's a lot of money. There is, as I'm sure you all know, but I'll
mention it anyhow, a lot of money out there. The IIJA vastly increased the amount of money for the low-no
grants for low and no emission fleets. I think it's $1,000,000,000 a year for the next several years. So
hopefully we can be tapping into that money and move us in that direction.
I think-- I guess the other thing I would say is that I think the SOP rightly focused on increasing service in
our current equity populations. And that's always got to be a big focus, but I like the focus in here on building
the regional backbone and partnering for some of the service. So bravo. Thanks. Those are my comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Much appreciated. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. I appreciate the second bite of the apple, unless Director Cook wants to go
ahead first. OK, cool.
So yeah, I just want to clarify a few things because I did take the time to look up my FasTracks first Fast
Connects, which was the suburb-to-suburb BRT. And I was under the impression that when we referenced
FasTracks, we were inclusive of the entirety of the FasTracks and Fast Connects plan, and we all just use
FasTracks as a simplified nomenclature. Is that correct or am I-- or are we intentionally, when we say
FasTracks, only referring to FasTracks rail?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Welch, I see your hand is up, if you'd like to comment.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, if I may, it should say re-evaluate the FasTracks plan because the intent, as the
Directors have indicated, was to the look at the three big pillars of FasTracks, which were Park-n-Rides,
bus service, and system expansion. So we appreciate that clarification and we'll make that change to the
language here on the implementation slide. That makes sense. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. And when we're talking about zero emission, zero emission transition,
does the asset transition plan that's coming forward include a full fleet, meaning inclusive of all vehicles
owned by RTD? Or is it just Revenue Service Bus?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I see General Manager Johnson has her hand up, if you'd like to go ahead, please.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Director Dishell, for that
question. At this juncture, this is what we need to discern. We need to look at that framework that we first
have, because recognizing where we are with our assets not being in the optimal state of good repair, we
have to ensure that we're being diligent and we have to be intentional as we go forward. So we will ensure
that we bring information back to all of you because you will have to approve said plan, and we could put
forward recommendations. But right now, I would just be purely speculating conjecturing as relates to where
we are because we still have the same issue at hand relative to garnering a better understanding of where
we are with our assets.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you. And my last question is-- well, first one's a comment, which is, Director
Guissinger, I definitely appreciate the point, and I know you and I have talked about the partnership plan.
But I think to the extent it is really critical, perhaps that's a good opportunity for a release of FISA funds for
partnerships. In the slides we just reviewed, some quick back the napkin math shows that the Board has
over $200 million at its discretion budgeted for next year, combining $168 million from FasTracks plus $50
million from Board-approved funds. So I think to the extent, instead of trying to squish and squeeze from
Mobility Plan For the Future for certain things, it seems like perhaps maybe at our Board retreat there's
some opportunity to be more intentional about funds that seem to just sit there and roll over year over year,
as we look at deploying more capital to look at Board-directed items.
And the last one is really on plan alignment. I know, Ms. Johnson, you've done a great job at work and I'm
trying to make sure we're all, A, in the same boat and, B, rowing in the right direction. So just so that I
understand where this sits, which is that we have our strategic plan, which is the overarching direction of
the agency, the Mobility Plan For the Future is tied to the strategic plan, and the various plans referenced
therein all sort of will continue to feed up. So as we continue to see things come forward to the Board,
whether it's system optimization, service change, capital improvements, we should be-- everything should
be both strategic plan and Mobility Plan For the Future aligned. Is that sort of a fair, big characterization?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may? So I would qualify [INAUDIBLE] since that our strategic priorities
are the functional pillars upon which decisions should be made and recognizing the Mobility Plan For the
Future closely aligned with that, I would say your assessment is accurate, keeping in mind that we will do
a refresh, as we said, every minimally three years. And so recognizing the strat plan goes forward as well
for five years and we're going into year 2, long story short, I would say there is alignment there. But we'll
have to step back at a certain point in time and ensure that we're all looking at this in a manner which aligns
from a year over year basis.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Awesome. Thank you. Now I'm really finished.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. So I'm going to offer an amendment, but I'd like to preface it by a few remarks, if
I may. I wanted to acknowledge the difference between endorsing this approach-- and I like that wording,
that nomenclature for what we're endorsing here-- versus the implementation pieces that come to us for
formal approval.
The reason I want to go ahead and offer an amendment on page 86 is that it's pointing directly at
implementation, first of all. So we're talking about something that's going to be brought forward to us. So to
the extent we're separating the two, this one, this piece, this slide in particular, talks about the
implementation. So I thought it made sense to be clearer in some ways about that.

The matter of social equity communities and their serving as a priority, it's an important policy point, and I
think we want to be clear on that because my third point is this approach document is a communication tool
as well. It's what we bring back to our communities and talk about things. And so to the extent the
partnerships-- and I agree totally, they're a key piece. I really hope that's brought forward. I think we want
to be clear rather than ambiguous, or say that those details or that particular policy may or may not be as
it reads.
So for those reasons-- and also I had sent through a memo with a particular example that I think highlights
why the change would be good-- what I'd like to do, Mr. Chair, is move to modify the first bullet on packet
page 86 to read, prioritize partnership program investments to serve social equity populations for live, work,
or other trip needs, in parentheses.
TROY WHITMORE: I would second that motion to amend.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. That's an Amendment proposed by Director Cook with a second
from Director Whitmore. I'll now take questions and/or discussion regarding the amendment. Any
questions? Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thanks so much for bringing it forward. I think we've talked about it here and other
meetings, the importance of remembering that equity populations and marginalized groups don't just stay
within their community. They often are traveling to and from places.
My concern with the language as proposed, and maybe we can tweak it, which I know Robert's Rules of
Order, it's not his favorite thing. But my concern is that we'd see it as a justification for some sort of future
economic development, to say, oh, well, it might serve equity populations, this place might employ equity
populations, versus where someone lives, which is a known quantity. And I'm wondering if there's a way to
finesse that language such that it's one thing if we know that there's a building that employs 1,000 low wage
individuals. It's another thing if someone's going to try to say, oh, well, I'm building a brand new development
and we're going to add 2,000 jobs, and they sort of try to couch it in that language. That's my sort of concern
with the language is, as I know it can quickly turn into a fractal pattern as well, how far do you want to really
specify things.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: One suggestion is that's just the sort of thing that you would expect to come forward in
the implementation piece, and I would leave it to the staff and their good work in identifying the particular
criteria that carries forward from that piece. So I'd feel comfortable leaving it to that next step or when that
does come back.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook. I think I have a related question after hearing Director Dishell's
comments. And I think it's for staff and perhaps you, Ms. Johnson, directly, or if you'd like to defer to anyone
else. How do we measure, recognizing that is a few clicks down the road when we go to implementation?
I think, to Director Dishell's point, we have a known quantity of where folks live who are in need of increased
need of service.
But in terms of looking at employment centers or other community activity centers, as highlighted by Director
Cook, do we have good ways of measuring, and how do we do that? Would you mind commenting on this
amendment and what data will be available to us for implementation?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I will provide some comments and I'll yield the floor to Mr. Sirois. And if necessary,
Mr. Green is on the call as well. So recognizing as we look at delivering service to ensure that there is
service equity and we look at communities as a whole, we're recognizing they're traversing the entire area.
So it's not done in absentia. We look at data from the American Community Surveys to discern where there
are those populations, be they low income or be they communities of color as well.
And so in turn, we have to look to see where people are going, and that's why this process is Evergreen to
discern if there is future development and done in a holistic fashion. Then more so, as we talk about what
our Guiding Principles are, we have to basically put forward what we intend to accomplish and look at that
from a service equity vantage point as well. So with that overarching statement, I will yield the floor to Mr.
Sirois-- and I see Mr. Green came on camera-- to further elaborate as it relates to what we're doing from a
Title VI vantage point. Mr. Sirois?
BILL SIROIS: And I was just going to acknowledge Mr. Green and let him talk about his kind of some of
revisions he's taken to their approach to the service equity analysis, where we're looking at some of those
destinations as part of that effort.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, good. We're all aligned. That's so exciting. Mr. Green?

CARL GREEN JR: Yes. Thank you, Bill and Debra. Chair Davidson, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, please, go ahead, sir.

CARL GREEN JR: A key component, as far as our Title VI program update in the way that we're doing our
service equity analysis, a key component of our forthcoming analysis includes key public service
destinations. To General Manager and CEO Johnson's point as looking at employment centers, whether
it's hospitals, academics, higher education institutions, and middle schools, high schools, things of that
nature, that's part of the data that we've already compiled, so we already have it ready to go to be able to
assess whether or not it's increasing access to these key public service destinations.
So as we look at the juxtaposition between equity populations, so minority and low income populations,
we're also looking at where are people going. So we have the data that's readily available that we have
obtained through, whether it's DRCOG, ACS data, and then the QCEW, which is the Quarterly Census
Employment and Wage data, so being able to triage all that together to be able to have a better assessment
of where our folks are going and where are services.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for that context. And that's excellent. That's great, answers my
question. And it sounds like there's a lot of good data that we have access to and new methods and
processes we're creating to capture that. So that's great and it sounds very much like that match of some
of the intent, I think, of what, Director Cook, that sounds like you're aiming at with the amendment. Thank
you for the answers. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, and Director, I apologize [INAUDIBLE]. I'm curious if you would be amenable to
striking the live, work, and other transit, and just leaving it as serve equity communities. And the reason
there is twofold.

One is, especially with marginalized populations, I think it's critical-- and certainly everyone on this
committee presents as white, but we are asking the community what they need. So to say I'm going to
serve you, and then say, but only for these enumerated items, which I don't think is your intent, sort of cuts
against the language of serve and might not be the most equitable choice, versus saying to the community,
we're here to serve you. You tell us what your needs are, whether you need to get to live, to work, to
medical, to grocery, et cetera. And so just curious if you'd be amenable to sort of dropping that parenthetical
to better emphasize that serve portion and really give our staff more flexibility on the implementation side.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell, you mentioned Robert's Rules before, so I hear you asking Director
Cook about a friendly amendment here. Director Cook, if you wouldn't mind commenting on that.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. With the understanding that we are solely basing it on self-reported need, that we
do have the data, such as Carl Green discussed and so forth, then yes, if my seconder, Director Whitmore,
would be amenable, I would accept that as a friendly amendment.
TROY WHITMORE: Oh, just this one time, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Well, I'll mark it down in the column.
TROY WHITMORE: Please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. So we're going to end. I see no further discussion. We'll vote on this
amendment. Director Cook, if you wouldn't mind just reading the language then for one more time with that
adjustment.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. The motion is to modify the first bullet to read-- this is on packet page 86 under
subheading equity-- prioritize partnership program investments to serve social equity populations.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Director Cook. I'll go ahead and call the roll for the vote. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Cook?
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson, I'm sorry. Is there-ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, sorry.
BOBBY DISHELL: Can we switch from communities to populations?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Yeah, that was part of the motion to begin with.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Sorry. Go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I like the original better, but I will vote Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I will also be a Yes. That is the unanimous seven aye votes. There are no votes on
the amendment. We'll go back to discussion on the main motion, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Well, I see no further-- sorry, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I was going where you were going. I was going to call off questions, and it sounded like
you were about to call about it. So [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just really quickly, just to make sure I understand, so we'll be endorsing sort of the
general plan. And any time, for instance, since we've talked about the partnership, before that's put into
place, it will come back to us for approval of the implementation. Is that right? I guess that's Mr. Welch or-ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So as we talk about as we go forward in reference to the partnership program,
for you all to garner a better understanding, we would be bringing this forward so you are aware of what we
would be doing collectively. So yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the partnership program as part of the implementation would come back for us
for approval as ultimately?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oops.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Appreciate it. I'll just make the comment. Last time, in other
matters of this committee, I had mentioned that increasing clarity around the concern we have about the
lack of diversity we have in our funding in conjunction with how our funding scales as the region grows. And
I just wanted to call out that I do want to make sure we visit that in this committee next year, and packet
page 68 really calls that out beautifully, showing the way that our revenue scales, recognizing this is a very
far forward-looking projection and things change, pandemics happen. But it's a great chart for calling out
why we need to tackle this.

And I think the exciting thing about this is, actually, this roadmap, this plan gives us some opportunities.
And like some of my fellow Directors, I really appreciate the current funding versus increased funding, and
also some of the general language that's used here. When you look at page 78 and the increased funding
of improved bus and rail accessibility for all, there's really exciting targets that we can go after in there.
And I know that some things that have come up and have come up in side conversations and meetings
about what we might talk about with youth and education and opportunities where we can approach the
state and we can approach some of our local jurisdictions in a way that other transit agencies do align
around this. I think there's some pretty cool things we could be talking to the legislature about, to partners
like CDOT, to other partners throughout the region. So anyway, really appreciate the presentation and really
exciting to-- I agree with Director Cook's comments that we can use this as a communication piece. And I
would throw out there as a task to this committee and to this Board in next year, looking at the opportunities
to engage with other agencies to identify those additional sources of funding that package page 68 so
beautifully calls out the need for. So thank you for allowing me to take the time to call back to that other
matter I brought up last time.
With that, we will go ahead and I will call for the vote. I'm going to do this as a roll call vote as well. This is
for the endorsement of the Mobility Plan For the Future. This is back to the main motion as amended.
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I will be a Yes. I see a hand up, but we'll go ahead and that's going to be emotional
passed with six aye votes, one no vote. Director Catlin, I see your hand raised. Was there an additional
comment that I may have missed?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, and it's probably moot at this point. I was going to suggest, prior to it not being a
unanimous vote, giving one no vote that we remove it from the unanimous consent agenda for the Board
because I think, based on the length and depth of the discussion tonight, it would warrant a full Board
discussion. So that would have been my recommendation, but that's a moot point. Anyway.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you for the comment. I think the intent behind that was good. Apologies for
missing it. I dumped my notebook and up here, but yes, we will be off now. So appreciate the comment
there.
All right. Thank you, everybody. Thanks for the presentation. Good discussion. Let's move to the fourth and
final action of the evening.
This is with regards to the IT work order contract. This is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General
Manager and CEO or her designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract the
DatamanUSA for Information Technology or IT work order services in an amount not to exceed $10 million
over five years, nor $2 million in any single year. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second. I have a mover, Director Whitmore, and a second, Director Cook. Now I would
like to go ahead and ask Ms. Leah Riley, our Chief Administrative Officer, Mr. Eric Ferrington, Senior Project
Manager, to please present this item.
LEAH RILEY: Great. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and members of the Committee. Mr. Chair, you summarized it
pretty well. Just a little more detail is we're recommending to the Committee to authorize the General
Manager and CEO to enter into a five-year contract with DatamanUSA to provide on-call IT services to
support the IT division.
So this is routine. This is something that RTD has done in the past. This is just a continuation of work with
a new contractor to support the IT division.
Some of the tasks, they can be short-term, they can be mid-term. They can be determined based on project
and funding available, but some of the types of services that would be requested are support for hardware,
software, and databases, looking at our IT administration, performing analyses for us, looking at smart
vehicle technology, traveler information, helping with analyzing emerging technologies, doing some quality
assurance and testing, and as well as helping us with procurement initiation.
So again, as the Chair said, it's $10 million over five years, and it won't exceed more than $2 million in any
given year for the life of the contract. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Riley. Much appreciated. Any questions from Committee members or
discussion? Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: At the risk of getting in the weeds, Ms. Riley, it's $10 million over the life of the contract,
but not to exceed $2 million in any given year. In the event that a $2 million is not expended in any given
year, can it be rolled forward into subsequent years?
LEAH RILEY: The authority only about $2 million per year.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So it's a use it or lose it on an annual basis.
LEAH RILEY: Correct.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Any further questions or discussion? All right, I'm going to
go ahead and call for the vote. Are there any no votes for this action? Being none, the motion will pass
unanimously. Seven aye votes, zero no votes.
Thank you very much for all of the presentations and recommended actions and discussions from
Committee members. We're going to go ahead and now move into our discussion items section of the
agenda.
We have one discussion item tonight, and it is with regards to the system fare study and equity analysis.
And at this time, I'll go ahead and ask Mr. Chris Quinn, Planning and Project Manager, and Mr. Carl Green,
Jr., Acting Director of Civil Rights, to please present this item to the Committee.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you, Chair. Yes, Carl and I will be providing an update of where we are on the fare
study at this point. And with that, give me just a moment to allow me to share my screen for the presentation.
And is that showing? Thank you, good.
So as part of our discussion tonight or part of our presentation, we'd like to, first, go over the schedule, talk
about the alternatives development, and what the alternatives do look like, and then also talk about other
policies and programs that are sort of in the background that could be considered with either one of these
alternatives, also talk about some of the recent community outreach efforts that we've embarked on, and
then conclude with the next steps. So Carl is going to begin with discussing where we are on the schedule.

CARL GREEN JR: All right. Thank you, Christopher. So again, Carl Green, Jr., Interim Director of the Civil
Rights Division. And what this diagram shows before you here, it depicts the overall schedule as it relates
to the study. The solid maroon illustrate the critical points or key stages of the project, whereas the hollow
squares with the maroon borders demonstrate inputs that have been very vital to this study, i.e. The
customer and community feedback.
And based off the feedback that we gathered through engagement milestone number 2 and number 1, as
well as the financial and operational modeling, we identified two possible fare structures that could help
RTD achieve its three goals of equity, simplicity, and affordability. And we will use that feedback gathered
in this round-- so it says the current stage, fall 2022. We will use the feedback that we received from this
round of community engagement to develop and create the final recommendation, and then that
recommendation will be announced and available for the public comment and public hearing process in
early 2023.
And in addition to that, I also wanted to highlight that the Title VI fare equity analysis will be brought before
the Board for the Board's approval during that same time frame. And then to round us out at the very, very
bottom, the Board will then decide on the new fare structure next year. Next slide.
All right, so now let's get into the fare structure development and how we developed the alternatives. So
again, as we have mentioned throughout our Board updates, we are using a customer- and communitycentric approach. And we have time and time again answered that call and met the moment as it relates to
community engagement, and truly ensuring that we were receiving the feedback from all of our customers.
And I just wanted to mention that there are a number of different opportunities. I see some of the Board of
Directors reviewing the different bullet points, but really to drive it home and to provide more information,

we're just grateful for the more than 3,000 community members who have participated in surveys, focus
groups led by community partners, our stakeholder panels, and as well as our customer and community
meetings during engagement milestone number 1 and 2.
I also want to particularly highlight and recognize the community partners. Again, this was a venture that
was the first of its kind at RTD of moving forward with a multicultural services or multicultural outreach and
engagement services contract where we brought on six community partners who have that already
established trust in the community, so being able to leverage them to really have boots on the ground from
doing door to door, meeting with community members and our customers, to going to bus stops and rail
stations and collecting feedback through surveys, and also conducting focus groups.
In addition to the feedback that we've heard from the public, our project team has also done extensive
modeling that takes into account additional considerations, and these considerations are financial
sustainability, which basically is fare pricing to maintain that long-term financial sustainability, to what are
the operational and technological feasibility best practices at transit agencies across the country. We've
heard from a lot of different properties of ones that have conducted recent fare studies, so being able to
leverage their best practices and understandings has been very vital to this project, to what are the potential
impact on minority and low income customers, which is in accordance with our RTD's Title VI program, as
well as Title VI of the Civil Rights of 1964. And then lastly, the ability of those alternatives to help RTD
achieve those three goals of equity, affordability, and simplicity. Next slide, please.
So prior to handing the ball over to Chris and taking a deeper dive into those two alternatives, I just wanted
to highlight that these are examples of what the final recommendation could look like, and essentially these
are preliminary prices and structures that are subject to change. And utilizing the customer and community
feedback that we received during this engagement milestone in this round of engagements, it will help
inform the final fare structure, policies, and programs. And then again, once the final recommendation is
developed, customers and communities will again have another opportunity to engage and provide input
during the public comment and public hearing process. So with that being said, I'll now pass it back over to
Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you, Carl. And with that in mind, we will go over the two alternatives that are under
consideration. And at the risk of sounding like broken records, I do want to emphasize, as Carl noted, that
these still are kind of alternatives that are under development so that as we formulate the final alternative,
these will-- whichever we choose or recommend for moving forward will likely be different from this based
on the community input that we receive.
So alternative A basically lowers fares for all types of service, but it retains the local, regional, and airport
fare levels. Now, the feedback that informed this, as we were out in the public for our first round of public
engagement, or what we were calling milestone number 1, along with the survey that we had out in the
spring, we heard quite a bit that the fares were too expensive. And in fact, approximately 2/3 of the
respondents said that they would make fares less expensive as a recommendation for moving forward with
the fare study.
So this alternative does decrease fare prices for all types of service, maintains the current service levels
without raising fares, and it has the effect of rewarding frequent customers, and then also does lower the
airport fare. And then digging deeper into it, you see on the top, on the left-hand side, we have on the red
table, those are our existing fares, and then alternative A is shown below in blue. So just pulling up one
example, local fare for the three hour would go from $3 down to $2.75. Regional fare drop from $5.25 to
$5, and then lastly, the airport from $10.50 down to $10.

So now, how does alternative A perform against the study goals of equity, affordability, and simplicity? In
the case of equity, we show a green light here. And that is because under this alternative, our financially
burdened and minority customers would experience a greater decrease in average fare prices than all RTD
customers overall.
And the largest price decrease in terms of percentages would be under the local three-hour pass, and that
is the past that-- that is the fare that most of our financially burdened customers do rely on.
Now, against affordability, also put a green light there. All customers benefit. We would retain the current
distance-based fare, but the monthly fares would drop fairly significantly, as you see.
Now, the last goal, simplicity, have kind of the yellow light there simply because while we do lower the fares,
we don't do anything to actually change the fare structures. So the existing-- the fare boundaries, the
complex matrix of regional fares for the regional buses would stay in place.
Now, under alternative B, this one is what we sometimes refer to as flattening the fares. That is to say that
no matter which-- no matter how far you're traveling, except for the airport, you would pay a single fare.
And of course, needless to say, the feedback that informed this particular alternative is the fact that also
within our surveys and our public outreach, we heard that the system was too complex.
So one of the benefits of this is we remove the distance-based fares, but we also do reward our frequent
customers and the lower-- as you'll see on the next slide, the airport fare is reduced. So just like under
alternative A on the top here, in the red, we show the existing fare structure, or then existing fares. Then
below in the orange shows it would be under alternative B.
And here again, just emphasizing, as you notice, we combine the local and the regional, but we would
maintain an airport fare. But the airport fare would drop from $10.50 down to $10.
In terms of how this performs against the goals, from an equity standpoint, not as positive as alternative A
for the main reason that there's no decrease to the local fares. And so those that would benefit the most
would not be our low income riders.
And from an affordability standpoint, we also put a kind of a yellow light on that one simply because the
fares are no longer necessarily reflecting that the distance that people are traveling. So it becomes more
affordable for those that previously were paying a regional fare, but those who are currently paying the local
fare are not really getting much of a benefit. But from a simplicity standpoint, solid green light in that
eliminates a lot of the confusion that we have in the system as it is today.
Then this is just a side by side showing the alternatives comparison, again, alternative A on the left,
alternative B in orange on the right. The big things to take away with alternative A, all customers would pay
less. We'd be rewarding our frequent customers by lowering the monthly pass price. However we would
still have the existing fare structure, which adds to the complexity.
Then in alternative B, big takeaway, as I said, what we refer to as flattening the fares. So it doesn't matter
whether you get on a local bus, regional bus, you would pay $3. Airport would be the only exception. So
much simpler, and we would also have-- we'd be rewarding our frequent customers by lowering the monthly
pass fairly substantially.

Then Karl is going to discuss some of the other things that are going on in the background with regard to
our other policies and programs that would be under consideration, regardless of what the alternative that
is chosen. Carl.

CARL GREEN JR: Thank you, Chris. So as Chris alluded to, some of the other policies and programs under
consideration, many of which are set up to accomplish one of two goals. The first one here that you can
see on the chart here is improving transit mobility and access for financially burdened customers. This may
include changes to fare discounts and improving access to LIVE, which is our income-based discount
program. And it may also include grants for certain types of nonprofits, nonprofit organizations, as well as
programs for affordable housing developments or higher education institutions, such as community
colleges.
The second is about simplifying and increasing the use of our pass programs, and this may include a bulk
purchase program with a 10% discount and simplifying the pricing for smaller employees. And next slide,
please.
All right, so taking a deeper dive into the discounted fares, essentially, first, RTD is recommending that the
discount for the LIVE program, for the LIVE customers, would be increased from 40% to 50%, which would
align with the other discounts for seniors, persons with disabilities, and Medicare cardholders. And then in
addition to providing a larger discount for customers with limited incomes, it would simplify the discount
programs again to have better alignment with our discount programs.
So as you see, what's under consideration, the first bullet point is about 70% monthly pass or fare fair cap
discount for customers paying discounted fares. Essentially, this would make regular travel with RTD more
affordable for financially burdened customers and can help encourage or encourage more eligible
community members to sign up for our LIVE program. And then the second bullet point of single fare for
discount customers, regardless of distance traveled and services utilized. So what this would look like if
implemented is that you could travel anywhere in RTD's service area for $0.90, and all other discount
customers would travel anywhere for about $1.50.
And then next is free fares for youth. So RTD is exploring this opportunity. Again, this would require an
external funding partner if it was secured, and this would impact the age group of youth for 6 to 19 years of
age. So that's one thing that I-- or another thing that I wanted to highlight.
And then the other part is increased access opportunities to apply for LIVE. So what we're looking at here
is removing the out-of-network address to ensure that people who are experiencing houselessness, if
there's a out-of-network address, they can be eligible for this program. Another aspect of this is being able
to increase the federal poverty level. Currently, right now we're at or below 185% in the federal poverty
level, so we're looking at increasing that to 200% to ensure that we are able to meet the moment for folks
that are financially burdened.
And then lastly, not under consideration during our conceptual option stage during milestone number 2,
that was something that was put on the table of aligning the youth discount from 70% to 50%. Bottom line,
we're not moving forward with that. That's not under consideration, especially as we look at customers who
need that opportunity to be able to access our system. So we will not be moving forward with reducing the
discount from 70% to 50%. Next slide.

All right, so now I'd like to highlight some recent engagement opportunities-- or activities, rather. So we
recently had our customer and community meetings. Both were held virtually through Zoom. And the first
one that was in English was on October 20, and the other one was on October 27.
We received a lot of great feedback and from community leaders and customers and the community. So
that was great. And I would also say that we had nearly 100 community members that participated that
represented Adams County, Arapahoe, Denver, Douglas, and Jefferson Counties.
The next bullet point, outreach events at Denver Union Station, Boulder, and Aurora. This was an
opportunity for staff from Planning, Civil Rights, and Communications Department to really attend these
different locations and engage with customers, whether they're getting off the bus or getting off the train,
rather, and really driving home the opportunity to engage with us and to fill out surveys.
Speaking of which, the next bullet point of the Community and Customer Survey we launched in early
October, that is projected to close on November 6. To date, we had about 2,916 surveys in English and
about 115 surveys in Spanish. And I just wanted to highlight the fact that this past week and as we drive
home to the November 6 date, is that we deployed a lot of different initiatives and activities to get the
catchment of folks to engage with this survey, hoping that will bring home, will increase those numbers. So
just wanted to highlight that.
And then the next bullet point, press release, website update, and social media campaign. This was really
all hands on deck. And just thinking about it, it was like an orchestra just thinking about the consultants, the
RTD team across the agency, whether that be communications, planning again. So I just wanted to highlight
and give a big kudos to Marta Sipeka and her team for really bringing it up to ensure that we are engaging
with folks on different methods.
And then lastly, equally as important to engaging with our community and customers is making sure that
our internal stakeholders and teammates are apprised of where we are at within this fare study and equity
analysis project. So we launched an Inside Connections, which is our internal newsletter highlighting
different aspects of the project, to as well as our Facts-n-Snacks, which we held last week, where we had
a number of different folks attend these Facts-n-Snacks sessions where we engage with staff and also
move forward with different questions and answers that we received throughout the sessions. With that
being said, I'll now pass it back over to Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: Thanks, Carl. So for our next steps, moving into this next month, as Carl indicated, the
survey will close this weekend. After that, we are going to be meeting with our feedback panels. And just
as a reference, the feedback panels, we have the pass program working group-- or excuse me, pass
program feedback panel, the equity feedback panel, and a jurisdictional panel. Expect to be meeting with
them at the end of November, early December to get some additional feedback from them.
And then our intent is to try to develop a final alternative for the Board and community consideration towards
the end of this year into early next year. So what we would do there is seek Board approval, once we have
that to release the final alternative for public review, and then go out with our public hearings. We would
expect that to be in the winter-spring frame, with the intent then of seeking final Board review and approval
of the recommended alternative in the spring time frame of next year.
And with that in mind, also just want to remind everybody that, as Carl indicated, we do have the website
up, so a lot of real good information on there. And then, of course, the survey does close this weekend, so
anything we can do to encourage additional participation in the survey we would certainly be most grateful

for. And with that, we're happy to try to address any questions, comments, concerns that the Board may
have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much to Mr. Quinn and Mr. Green. I hope you're having fun with
this. This is pretty cool. It's fun stuff. And it's neat to see this coming together. So thank you for sharing the
progress and keeping us apprised as this develops.
I'll go ahead and call on Directors for discussion and for questions. I think I saw Director Broom's hand up,
but it went down. So I'll go to Director Cook, please. You're on mute.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, thanks so much, Director. So to the extent you all are identifying the benefit that
accrues to folks who are low income, do you take into account those who are paying for the passes, the
monthly passes, on their own nickel? The reason I ask is I-- we had quite a bit of experience with folks who
worked at the airport, that 40,000 people all having to buy a regional pass.
Many of them-- I'm talking to the people in the food restaurants, or food and sit-down restaurants, people
who work for traveler services, they got very little or no money from their employer toward the pass. That
reduction you'd see from the regional $200 down to $96 would make a huge difference to those folks. And
I thought it might be true, too, throughout the region. Just want to make sure you're working to get your
hands around that, and don't discount that as a benefit to folks who are strapped and trying to take care of
their travel needs. [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Someone like to address that?
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, a couple of points there. One, we have been, to your point, certainly alternative B
significantly reduces the regional pass that an airport employee would be using. And along with that, as we
have introduced fare capping, that would make it even easier for somebody relying on a monthly pass,
since they wouldn't have to put the money up front. But as they've accumulated enough trips for the fare
capping to kick in, that would obviously also reduce the amount that they would need to pay. Both
alternatives, of course, do reduce the monthly pass price, but as you point out, alternative B certainly
significantly more.
And related to that, we do have Denver Airport as part, participating in our feedback panel, specifically the
pass program's feedback panel. And along with that we are also going to be recognizing some of the unique
needs they have. We will be meeting with them, actually, later this week as part of a focus group with their
employers to seek input on what they think of the alternatives.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. Can we have a breakdown of the fare media-- distribution of their
media that are currently used as a way to measure any changes we make and improvements therefrom or
not?
CHRIS QUINN: We do, but we would have to-BOBBY DISHELL: Big asterisk?

CHRIS QUINN: Well, that we would have to-- I don't think there's anybody, unless I'm looking around in all
the boxes here. I don't think anybody here that would know off the top of their head, but that is certainly
information we can provide for you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, that would be-- I would just appreciate it because I think as we're evaluating
feedback, and I think hopefully as we look at a program in a year or two, it'd be great to sort of see how
folks [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Dishell. Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. I would say that we will compile that information, as we have various forms of
fare media, and I want to ensure that it's comprehensive. And we will disseminate in the manner we
generally do with any Board inquiry to all Board members so everybody has access to the same information.
So we'll endeavor to get that done in the next two weeks because I know it's going to take some time. Mr.
MacLeod is on this call, and I know his staff are the ones that assemble that. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you all. I just want to say how exciting it is to see youth, free fare for youth
[INAUDIBLE] for me who've tried to champion. It's something I beat the drum on, so it's really exciting to
see that's under consideration.
My last question is, are we A/B testing this data, to be more specific switching which one shows up as A,
which one shows up as B, which one comes first, which one comes second, when we're asking people to
evaluate which alternative they prefer?
CHRIS QUINN: I'm sorry. I didn't-- I didn't hear the entirety of the question. Could you repeat that?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Are we doing A/B testing when it comes to these which option people prefer?
CHRIS QUINN: In terms of-- I guess I'm now quite-- I'm sorry. Bill, I see your hand is up.
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE] right. Yeah, Bill?
BILL SIROIS: I was just saying, one of the things that we did when we developed the alternatives, we
intentionally didn't-- we named them generic names so there wouldn't be-- it's not like the low fare option
and the flattening fare option. We didn't want to try to bias, so we just-- again, A and B, we haven't done, I
don't think, any of what you're talking about, in terms of mixing up which one was talked about first and
which one was talked about second. But again, we felt in terms of addressing it by calling fairly generic
names, that we weren't kind of intentionally biasing people's opinion because we were just kind of looking
and say, hey, there's A or B. Which one do you like?
BOBBY DISHELL: That's great. And I definitely appreciate that. And I also know from taking a survey that
you guys have people sort of drag and drop priorities. Is that-- can you talk about how that is going to maybe
implement the two options we have before us today? Or is the Board going to sort of see those weighted
factors? If anyone on the Board hasn't taken the survey, I recommend you do it. [INAUDIBLE]. You guys
did a good job.
BILL SIROIS: I'll start, and then, Chris or Carl, you jump in. I mean, yeah, we're going to need some-- we've
already looked at, started look at preliminary crosstabs and how it breaks down by different groups and

different things, and trying to discern kind of what that means. I'll just say this. I think not to kind of let the
cat out of the bag, but there is an overwhelming kind of support for alternative B thus far, from most angles.
But we are going to continue to push that. An like Carl said, we have a big push here at the end to try to
get more people to take it. And hopefully by the end, this weekend, we'll have our consultants doing kind of
a summary of this, and then we'll be able to present some of that information to the Board. Probably it will
be next year in terms of we presenting some of that summary information as we kind of come up with this
recommended alternative.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Dr. Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much. And thanks. I think there's some really exciting options, not
just the alternative A and B, but some of the backup, the idea of working with our affordable housing areas- I've mentioned that before-- to provide eco passes or something like that.
Have we looked at the effects on the budget? Are these similar? Were they designed to have similar effects?
CHRIS QUINN: We're right now in the process of modeling with both the ridership and the financial
implications would be for each one of the alternatives. We do have some very high-level not results, but
high-level information on that, just to make sure that we're not going too deep into negative territory. But
we don't have that information ready for prime time yet. But short answer, yes, we are looking at what the
implications those implications would be.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. It looks like Mr. Sirois has something to add.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah, I was just going to say that we've been working very closely with CFO Doug MacLeod
and his staff on this, and Doug has kind of given us kind of a direction in terms of, which I think he alluded
to during the budget conversation earlier this meeting, about looking at a kind of a threshold of 20% as kind
of a reduction that we could look at and still not be able to not have impact on our ability to provide service.
So we've been using that generally. But like Chris said, we're going to provide more information as we kind
of get into this recommend alternative more specifics on this very topic.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And a couple of questions that are probably for Carl Green. I wonder, when I
see a drop from $3 to $2.75-- I don't know how you measured this, but I wonder if in implementation, I
guess my thought is that most people aren't carrying change, that there'd be many people who would just
put in $3 anyhow. Is that something that's considered as you look at this?

CARL GREEN JR: I mean, that's-- Director Davidson, if I-- or Chair Davidson, if I may? So just a follow-up
on that question as we look at alternative A and really bringing-- as we look at potentially decreasing the
price for alternative A, knowing that if we look at the fare payment types, whether that's cash or ABT,
MyRide card, so on and so forth, of as we think about fare capping and really getting to that monthly price,
overall how ABT has set up of getting the best value out of their fare, so over time they can realize the
benefits of being able to use fare capping as a way to pay for their overall cost. So when I think about
reducing the price, whether they're using our sales outlets or our forthcoming retail network of being able
to purchase fares at a lower cost. So we are looking at that and the magic number of where we landed,

given our left and right parameters from a financial sustainability standpoint of how far we can come down,
and that was the price point that we arrived at.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And then this sort follows up on Director Cook's question, but do you look at-- as our
equity populations are moving out of the central area, a lot of other areas, there are people that are traveling
regionally certainly that are low income and minority. And if it affects fewer people but gives them a better
discount, is that weighed into it? Or is it just sheer numbers of how many people in those equity populations
are affected?

CARL GREEN JR: Well, the one part that I would inject on-- I'll let Bill or Chris add on as well-- is thinking
about where our Title VI populations, minority, low income, and what is the composition of the breakdown
between local, regional, or even airport, a majority of our Title VI populations are using our local routes. But
aside from that, as we think about the changing of the demographics and the shifts of what is-- the word
that I'm thinking of-- affordable to live within that local area, we are seeing a shift of populations going out.
But still the majority of our ridership, Title VI populations are utilizing local routes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I guess I'm just looking at the fact that there's such a difference. It's a quarter
on the alternative A and it's $2 or a little more on alternative B for-- that even if the majority is using-- I don't
know how close that majority is, if it's just over 50% or something that, if you're helping still a lot of people
more, if that weighs in at all.

CARL GREEN JR: Bill, do you want to-BILL SIROIS: Yeah, I was just going to add, I think the other thing that will be taken into consideration is
the other policies and programs that Carl did talk to about will play into this as well in terms of our ability to
look at providing discounts to our equity populations that could affect their ability and reduce their costs,
and whether or not they're a local rider and/or a regional rider. I think that will play into this analysis as well.
So I think that we'll look at that. But again, like Carl said, the sheer numbers show that the majority of our
equity populations are taking that kind of in that local category.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. Just one more quick question. I'd love to push this out on social media,
if there's some sort of graphic you could send us that we could post in the next few days.

CARL GREEN JR: Yes. We can definitely provide-- we have a lot of social media assets that we can provide
to the Board of Directors.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. That'd be great.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. That's great. Again, really appreciate this. And yeah, really appreciate getting
a chance to preview some of the additional things under consideration. So Mr. Green, thanks for covering
that. Youth, it sounds like a good one to go talk to the state about and to be looking for partners in additional
funding. So there's a couple of good ones on there, and thanks for bringing those to our attention as well
and for the presentation.

So with that, thank you to everybody for the discussion items. We're going to go ahead and move into other
matters. Are there other matters to come before the committee this evening? Similar to last time, I did have
one. I just wanted to say-- oh, go ahead. Director Dishell, you go first.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I just-- we touched on this last-- last time? Somewhat recently. And there's a lot
of emphasis on this new partnership role. And I think it-- has that job posted? Is it one FTE? Is it 1.5 FTE?
I want to make sure that if it's a huge policy priority that we have a partnership person there, and I know
trust agency or you are doing that, but I want to make sure you have the support and the budgetary support
that you need because it's not just the $2 million partnerships, it's [INAUDIBLE] a group to evaluate those
partnerships and borrowing on people's time to review proposals. And I know people [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very-- thank you very much for the question, Director Dishell. And
I would say that, no, the position isn't posted because the position is included in the budget, which this
committee just approved, hence we have to wait until the full Board basically approves the budget. And as
we go forward, we can position ourselves to post that, but this budget is in effect commencing January 1.
So we will do the legwork so we'll be at the ready, but additionally in parallel, we have to define the concepts
relative to the framework for the partnership program, which we'll be doing with the Subregional Service
Council.
So the team and I have aligned some elements. And as you may be aware, those Subregional Service
Council meetings are kicking off. So I think we're positioned, but we do have to be somewhat ginger in our
approach as we go forward, and to the point that was raised previously, ensuring that it's scalable. So we're
going to do our best relative to managing those expectations. So thank you.
And just one thing, so I can have another bite at the apple, recognizing what we talked about in the question
that Director Guissinger posed earlier, that, yes, we're going to work with the Subregional Service Councils,
just as we did before, and brought back to this body what it is because you guys have approved the funding.
But as we talk about where we are conceptually from an operational vantage point, that's what we'll be
working with the Subregional Service Councils on because, quite naturally, they know their areas better
than we do in that vein, but still have to ensure we're adhering to our standards as it relates to service
delivery. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to mention that the activities for the Audit Committee
or the selection of the members would ordinarily come through this group before being forwarded to the full
Board. But we have a little bit of a timing issue, and recognizing that we want to get an Audit Committee in
place before the end of the year, Directors Davidson, Dishell, and I are initiating a three Board member
action to present to the Executive Committee on the 10th that would move forward the names for the
external Audit Committee members. So I just wanted to say that we're skipping the step for this Committee
since this Committee won't be meeting until next year. So I don't know if you want to add anything, Director
Davidson, just wanted to-ERIK DAVIDSON: No, thank you. Thank you for commenting on that. Yeah, important point. That will be
coming up, and we'll hit our timelines and get that done. So that's great.

And actually, just right along the lines of not meeting until next year, my other matter, I was just going to
thank the Committee members here. The composition of the Committee may change. It has been an honor
to Chair this year the Finance and Planning Committee. It's a fun committee to chair because we've got
some pretty sharp minds on the RTD team, putting us into good shape. So I really think everybody from
staff to my fellow Directors and committee members here for allowing me to be a part of this and chair the
Committee.
The next meeting is going to be in January 2023, so this is our last of 2022. So thank you to the whole
team. And with that, our next meeting date will be a TBD date in January 2023 of the Finance and Planning
Committee. And seeing no further discussion, we will adjourn the Committee at 8:01 PM Mountain Time.
Thank you very much everybody. Take good care. See you soon.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

