Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 14, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 14, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 14,
2008 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Absent:

***
Chair Pro Tem Martinez, Treasurer Tayer, Secretary
McMullen (via phone), and Directors Chacon and
Yamrick.
Chair Kemp and Director Busck

Staff Present:

Phil Washington for Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:01 p.m.

Board Members Present:

I.

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
Phil Washington who was acting GM reviewed the items on the Board
agenda for unanimous consent and recommended action.



Unanimous Consent
Approval of Board Bylaws



Resolution No. __, Series 0f 2008 related to the issuance of RTD
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2008A
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached
Resolution Number ___(the “Bond Resolution”), authorizing the
issuance of Regional Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2008A.



IT Contingency Work Order Contract Third One-Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the
third-year option with LM Telecommunications incrementally
increasing the limit to $750,000 to extend the contract for IT
Technical and Management Support Services (15Dk009).
This
contract was originally awarded in 2005 to LM Telecommunications

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 14, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 2 of 4
through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an
initial year plus four one-year options to renew based on positive
performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed
$250,000. The third year option is to begin on March 1, 2008 and
remain in effect for one year until February 28, 2008.


IT Contingency Work Order Contract Third One-Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the
third one-year option with Ciber incrementally increasing the total
contract limit to $1,575,000 to extend the contract for IT Technical
and Management Support Services (15DK008). This contract was
originally awarded in 2005 to Ciber through the competitive bid
process totally separate from the ERP effort. The contract allowed
for an initial year plus four one-year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the contract was
not to exceed $525,000. This third-year option is to begin on April
1, 2008 and remain in effect for one-year until March 31, 2009.



Approval of May 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the May 4, 2008 Service Change
package as revised and summarized on Attachment A resulting in a
net annual expenditure of approximately $2,090,000, and, further, to
authorize the General Manager to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.
Phil Washington shared that the item for Arvada call-n-ride as to
whether or not Arvada would provide some funding for the call-n-ride
is still open and they have until the Board meeting on 2/19/08 to
resolve. No change in recommendation.



Request for Approval of the West Corridor Intergovernmental
Agreement with the City of Golden
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter
into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of
Golden and the Regional Transportation District, the purpose of which
is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of Golden to fund a
portion of the project costs and the obligations of RTD to design,
construct, own, operate and maintain a light rail transit project within
the boundaries of Golden. This IGA does not commit any present
funding by either Party. Implementation of the IGA implies future
approvals and is subject to each respective agency’s legally required
budgeting, authorization and appropriation process. Nothing in the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 14, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 3 of 4
IGA shall be construed as a multiple fiscal year obligation by either
Party.


Application for Rezoning 350 South Santa Fe Drive
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute all documents that may be necessary for RTD to allow for
the rezoning of property located at 350 South Santa Fe Drive, to
allow Alameda Station, LLC, the successful proposer, pursuant to the
RFP issued in 2004, to proceed with the City and County of Denver
process for the rezoning of said property on RTD’s behalf, and to
close on the property upon approval of the rezoning application by
the City and County of Denver.



Purchase four 40 Foot Ultra-low Sulfur Diesel Heavy Duty Transit
Buses
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the option
included in Contract 13DK005 with Gillig Corporation for 4 heavy
duty ultra-low sulfur diesel low-floor 40 foot transit buses.



Recommended Action



Approval of Public Private Partnership (P3) Goals and Schedule
Milestones
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to implement the
recommended goals and schedule milestones for the Public Private
Partnership (P3) Project based on consistency with overall FasTracks
goals and schedule.



Resolution No.___, Series of 2008 Appointees to Salaried Employee
Pension Trust
This was a new item that was recently completed by the Salaried
Employees Pension Plan Sub-Committee with a recommendation to
come before the full Board on 2/19/08.
Director Chacon has several questions related to a memo received
from Holman Carter about the Pension Plan. Chair Pro Tem Martinez
explained that the Salaried Employee Pension Trust and the Union
Pension Trust were two different issues with the Union Pension Trust
not currently managed by the Board. Phil Washington added that a
response had been prepared for the Union Pension Trust issue which
will require further discussion. At core of the current issue is there is
no “report back” mechanism to the RTD Board.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 14, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 4 of 4
Directors Tayer and McMullen made the motion to approve the
agenda as is to move forward to the full Board. The motion passed.
II.

Requested Meeting Date Change
The Executive Committee approved the changes to the Board Calendar
as requested by the Finance Committee Chair and the Operations and
Customer Service Assistant General Manager.

III.

Executive Committee Meeting with Governor
This discussion was tabled since Chair Kemp was absent from the
meeting due to sickness.

IV.

Jefferson Jackson Day Dinner/Lincoln Dinner
Director McMullen wanted to know if the Directors might want to get a
table which would need to be paid for through personal funds or their
campaign funds. He will check around for interest. Paula Perdue stated
the Board office could not assist in this as this was a partisan issue.

V.

RTD Board Operating Guidelines
Chair Pro Tem Martinez introduced this item but stated he felt more
discussion of the Executive Committee may be needed before moving it
forward to the full Board. John Tayer indicated he thought a discussion
might be needed around operational procedures related to the
implementation of these guidelines but felt it could be moved forward for
full Board input.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez indicated he would speak with Chair Kemp about
next steps to move this forward.
Director Chacon remarked that she felt this was the best facilitated
retreat and that the facilitator captured the essence of what was stated.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez added that already some changes from the
retreat are noted such as the 2009 Budget Preparation Calendar.

VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:35 p.m.

