2022-11-30
Performance Committee Meeting
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. So thank you. The performance committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 1:31PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless
you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining this afternoon. Please note that until further notice,
the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and
video recorded. The meeting's recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings will be posted
as soon as practical on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com to access meeting recordings and
unofficial meeting minutes.
A live stream of this meeting is also available via our RTD's YouTube page. Directors and members of the
staff, for the sake of the, record, if you would like to be acknowledged during this afternoon's proceedings,
I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star nine. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press star six. I would now like
to call role for the committee members. Chair Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And myself, Chair Lewis. We are all present. Let's see. Let's see who we have. It doesn't
look like we have any additional directors present for this meeting, but if I miss someone please raise your
virtual hand and I'll be sure to acknowledge you.
I would like to take the opportunity to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topics listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press star nine on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in,
press star six to toggle your mute settings.

Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board office at the following email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact
speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should
begin their remarks by stating their names and speakers will have 3 minutes to speak. We actually have no
speakers in the queue and is informed by the Board Office that there were no email comments received for
this afternoon's proceedings. And so with that we are actually going to close the public comment queue
because there are no participants in the queue.
There is one recommended action on the agenda this afternoon. And that's the approval of the General
Manager and CEO's 2022 appraisal and 2023 compensation. For the Board of Directors to approve our
General Manager and CEO, Deborah A. Johnson's, attached performance appraisal for the period of
January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022, and in connection there within to approve a 0% increase in
the GM's CEO's adjusted base salary commencing January 1, 2023. Do I have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Dishell. Second?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll second.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I have a first motion from Director Dishell and second from Director Catlin.
I would like to open up the discussion and then I'll open up the floor to the rest of the Directors as we move
forward.
I do have a few words that I'd like to say because we are going to be moving forward with a 0% salary
increase. And I think it's important, at least for me as the chair of this committee, to speak to the work that
Deborah has done within this agency. And I'll keep it short and brief I promise.
So General Manager Johnson is a brilliant CEO. Strategic leader and key ingredient to the success of this
agency. I want to share for the sake of the record as well as for my own integrity as the Chair of this
committee that the recommendation for the 0% base salary increase is not a reflection of the work that our
CEO and her staff have been able to do during this time. And so I think it's important that we state that
because I it's really important to my integrity that you know that the work that you have done is absolutely
been seen by myself, but other members of the Board. And so thank you for your commitment to leading
as a public servant in this agency. And I promise to keep them brief so I'll pass the floor over to Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Madam Chair. And I concur with your comments and the sentiment of your
comments. I get to work with Director [INAUDIBLE] weekly basis as the Chair Board and all of my
interactions with Director Johnson are professional to say the least. So I do not believe that this reflects at

all on her exemplary performance. As you said, the Chairman Dishell, she's a great leader. Thanks very
much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you Chair Buzek for your words. I really appreciate it. And at this time, I ask
Directors who have questions or who wish to speak to raise their virtual hands and I'll call on you in turn.
Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I concur with both you and Chair Buzek. And I think it also
speaks to the fact that we need to really look at this evaluation system a little more carefully moving forward
because I think that this put us in a difficult position.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Right.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would like to reiterate that the professionalism and integrity with which our General
Manager and CEO operates is a very, very, positive. I'm thankful for this agency and one of the persons.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Are there others who would like to speak? All right. There
you go, Director Sloan. I see you there.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I concur with all the comments today, and I was wondering
if we can memorialize this, these comments in writing, so that the community at large understands that
Deborah has been a true leader for RTD. And that there are problems with the system that we're working
under. I would like to see that memorialized in some way.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Sloan. I have no disagreement or qualms about that. I
don't know how we might do that or what that could potentially look like, but I'm happy to hear from members
of the staff or the other Board members who might have ideas on what that could look like. Director Dishell,
you're recognized.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks Chair Lewis. As I've said before, I will say it again, absolutely echo the
sentiments that have been shared. General Manager and CEO Johnson has done an absolutely incredible
job. So responding to Director Sloan, I think they are technically memorialized in a transcript that gets made
at this meeting, but I think if there was a recommended action or something of that nature for some form of
commendation, Director Sloan, if you wanted to take the initiative on writing that. I know we have two special
board meetings in December. So if you want to write it, take the lead on that, happy to put my name on it.
I do not have capacity to actually write it myself right now.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And I would be happy to work with Chair Lewis and Co-Chair Dishell in putting
something together.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Again, we need to talk to only two people because we don't have informal meetings
yet, but I think it would be good to confirm this committee's opinion of the service of CEO Jim Johnson.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, thank you for that. I'm happy to work with you, with both the Co-Chair as well as
you, Director Sloan, on what that could potentially look like. So we can chat offline. All right. There it is. Are
there any other questions or comments or sentiments that Directors would like to share? All right.
So it looks like they are no more comments or questions or discussions. So thank you all for what you
provided. I'll just ask if there are any no votes on this action. All right. I'm assuming that your silence means
you are not voting yes or no, but are voting in the affirmative instead. Whoops, sorry. So that is five votes
in the affirmative.
And as a reminder, this action will move forward. So our special board meeting scheduled for Tuesday,
December 6th. I would-- so we are going to move on to other matters if that's all right with y'all. I'm going to
keep it quick. Again, I told you that earlier. This is my last-- this is the last performance committee meeting,
or it's my last performance committee meeting, and so I just wanted to take a moment to thank all of you.
And I'll probably say a few more words, but one of the things that really stood out during our discussion last
week was the base salary for our General Manager, and that being 3% below market and the cost of living
with that being 3% below market with the cost of living adjustment and 9% below market without the cost
of living adjustment.
And I know that we are all aware of the reason for what a cost of living adjustment is intended to adjust,
right? Which is the cost of living. And so I hope that as you all move forward and I'm sorry I can't join you,
that you one, have the opportunity to revisit the evaluate tools that you all are working with, but also to
determine as a Board how we might want to lead. And from that Galaga report, we had the opportunity to
be leading in terms of compensation or to really be in the middle of the road or to be lagging.
And because I know that we will continue to bring brilliant leadership and then General Manager Johnson
will continue to brilliantly lead, I just wanted to take a moment to thank her and her staff for the much needed
strategic direction that we've been provided as we are moving forward. Your keen ability to collaborate and
really your commitment as a leader to consistently stand in your values, particularly during times of
difference and discomfort within this agency, and I know and others have seen the positive impacts on the
reputation of the agency from the work that we've done with our stakeholders.
I'd also like to thank my colleagues as it has been a pleasure and an honor to chair this committee. I'm
grateful for the work that we've accomplished. I'm grateful for the work that you all will continue to
accomplish together, and I'm grateful that you all trusted me to lead this committee and provided me with
the flexibility and the collaboration to do so. And so you all will be missed. I mean that. I'm not just saying
it. And I appreciate working with each of you. So if there are no other matters, you get to be freed. Oh sorry
General Johnson. I'm sorry about that. Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much Madam Chair. And good afternoon to members of the
committee and to staff and all that, all those that are assembled. I want to thank you all for your comments
and for your action this afternoon. And I would be remiss not to state that while I may be the Chief Executive
of this organization, I cannot run it alone. I appreciate the support that I have from the Board of Directors,
but more specifically the individuals that comprise this agency.

I'm a firm believer in an African proverb that if you want to go far, go alone. But if you-- sorry, if you want to
go far, go together. If you want to go fast, go alone. And recognizing that it takes a collective effort of
engaged individuals to actually bring about change, I want to ensure that all of you are aware that I have
the privilege of leading a dynamic team. And if you don't know that, now you know it. And some of them are
assembled this afternoon and behind them are more people and more people and more people. So I wanted
to state that and say thank you so much for your support of me, your belief in the agency, and my leadership
competency. So thank you very kindly and thank you for your service, Sarah Lewis, and I wish you the best
in future endeavors. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, CEO Johnson. I really appreciate it. So the next performance committee
meeting will be scheduled in 2023 once the new performance committee membership is established. The
Committee Chair will chair will work with the Board office and the General Manager to create the meeting
cadence for next year. And I will actually miss y'all. I'm sad to go. So y'all take good care and do good work.
And as of 1:46PM this meeting is adjourned. Bye, folks.

