Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
November 19, 2019 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Marshall Barner – Bus Operator – 18 years
Stephen Jimerson – Supervisor – 21 years
Lupe Jones – TIC Supervisor – 41 years
Eugene Saavedra – General Repair Mechanic – 18 years
Joy Volz – Quality Assurance Supervisor – 30 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of October 31, 2019

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Re-appointment of Salaried DB and DC Plan Trustees

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Resolution No. ______ reappointing Bill Van Meter and
Derrick Black to a term expiring 12/31/2021 as trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined
Benefit (i.e., Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #2 – Address Service & Human Capital
Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
B.

Adoption of the Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the attached Investment Policy which contains recommended changes to
reflect changes in state law relating to bank securities and some wording changes for
clarification purposes.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management, Task Goal #3 – Ensure Fiscal Sustainability
C.

Board Expense Reduction Resolution

It is recommended by the Executive Committee of the RTD Board of Directors that the Board
approve a motion to adopt the attached Resolution No. ______, Series of 2019, concerning
a Temporary Reduction of Certain Board Office Budget Lines Related to Director Travel and
the Allocation of Certain Meeting Expenses to Directors’ Local Expense Budgets.
This recommendation is consistent with the General Manager’s 2019 Core Goal #3 Strong Financial Management.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.

Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) for North Metro Line

It is recommended by Directors Buzek, Cook, Guissinger, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Whitmore, Williams, and Chair Tisdale at the Operations/Customer Services Committee
meeting, that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager take all necessary
steps to design and implement a Promotional Fare Pilot Program (“PFPP”) and to deploy
the first project in the program on the North Metro Line commencing from its opening date
and continuing for a period of six (6) months thereafter.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Increase Ridership

E.

Adoption of the 2020 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopts the attached 2020 Proposed Performance Report and the accompanying
performance measures for mission statement goals 1-7. In 2020, there are 42 proposed
performance measures to be tracked for the GM, which is one higher than for 2019.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Service

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session
Conference with Legal Counsel on DTP and RRP litigation matters. CRS 42-6-402 (4) (b)
(conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions)

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

