2024-04-01
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: The Monday, April 1 Performance Committee will now come to order. We are convened
as of 8:31 AM, and I would respectfully ask-[AUDIO OUT]
Do we need to start over?
VINCE BUZEK: April Fools.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, it wouldn't hurt since it was only a few seconds. Sorry for that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Well, let's rewind and start over. The Monday, April 1st Performance Committee will
now come to order. We are convened now as of 8:32 AM, and I would respectfully ask anyone attending
this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. A livestream of this meeting is also available
via RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.

PEGGY CATLIN: And I am Peggy Catlin, and I am also present. So for the record, we have seven directors
present. And we also have Director Louis, and I believe he's the only other director. And then we have
GM/CEO Johnson.
We have CFO Doug MacLeod. We have General Counsel Melanie Snyder. We have Board Office staff
Jack Kroll, Marie Snell, and Tai-Shrae Parish, and we have John McKay, and we have Dave Jensen, AGM
of Rail. Am I missing anyone? OK. I would like to now open public comment to anyone who would like to
address the committee, regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on
your phone. During this time, committee will not offer direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the Board office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Committee Chair Catlin. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At
this moment in time, we have no one present who has indicated a desire to provide public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I will now close the public comment period. So we have one recommended action
on the agenda this morning, and that is action for the approval of the 2024 Performance Committee Work
Plan. Do we have a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Rosenthal is the mover. Do we have a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Davidson.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Davidson is the second. Before we open this up for broader discussion, I'd like
to thank Board Chair Davidson, Committee Vice Chair Guissinger, as well as GM/CEO Johnson and Board
Office Executive Manager Kroll for their efforts on this Work Plan. I'd like to see if any of them have any
comments or input before we open up the matter for further discussion.
JACK KROLL: I just have one point of clarification, if I may, Committee Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Certainly.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. So on the packet materials that were distributed, there is a comment that was
intentionally left in, and that's just got cut off when it was PDF'd. But there was a comment on page 7 of the
packet indicating that, "Due to the timing of the customer excellence and community value survey results
and the work that needs to occur to get those ready, there's actually a second October meeting date that's
being held for 10/21, and there's potential for those survey results to be presented at that date." Other than
that, I have nothing else to add.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that clarification. So are there any Directors who have questions or who
would like to speak about the Committee Work Plan. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you all the members, directors who worked on
it. I like the plan. I think it's a good sort of path forward.

I especially like the parts about the Agency and Director check-in. I think that's something we've talked
about in the past, that it's important for us to have regular check-ins between us and the General
Manager/CEO and her staff to really-- well, it's really with the GM/CEO-- but it's something to where we can
keep those communications open, so we can have a good exchange of ideas and perspectives and
feedback so that we can keep the agency working at tip-top shape. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Any other Directors have comments on the Work Plan?
GM/CEO Johnson, do you have any comments? I know this is quite a bit more than we have seen in years
past, and I wanted to know if you're comfortable with this moving forward.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I am. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I'd like to ask if there are any no votes on this recommended action. Seeing none,
the vote is unanimous for passage of the 2024 Committee Work Plan. So moving on to other matters, the
only other matter is the Agency and Board metrics updates.
Director Davidson and I have been working on mapping out some of the items that were put forth in the
retreat about metrics. And there were a lot of things that were put forward, and we were trying to distill some
of these metrics or combine some metrics and put them forth and then map them toward our strategic goals
for the agency. And Director Davidson has done a good job of mapping or get started mapping some of
these overall strategic objectives to the different items that were put forth at the retreat.
And I don't know if some of you remember this that came out from Jonathan and Patrick. So I'm going to
turn the floor over to Director Davidson, just to outline the concept of how this has been mapped and see if
we're on the right track. Do you mind taking this?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, not at all. Thank you, Madam Chair. And, certainly, I think we're very much in the
work-in-progress phase, so this represents a good opportunity for everybody to weigh in and make sure
this is headed the right direction. And then I think the idea would be to put forward some proposed metrics.
Just as Chair Catlin was discussing there, we had a lot of discussion around agency metrics and what
would measure success at the retreat. And our facilitators did some work to help us try to not just capture
the notes but also categorize some of those. What Director Catlin and I have been now trying to do is sort
of piece together how those fit together within our strategic priorities.
And I think something Director Tisdale has pointed out very well in the past few weeks has been let's not
completely reinvent the wheel. We need to stay anchored to our strategic plan. We had a lot of great starting
point for metrics that we can go in and bring forward.
So we've also been looking at what are some of the things that we already had in our strategic plan. What
is work in progress at this phase? I'm interested to hear, just to make sure that we've captured the right
categories here. The four strategic priorities of customer excellence, community value, employee
ownership, and financial success, I think, still represent the focus of the agency and what it is that we're
looking to measure.
We then had success outcomes that we used to measure those that, of course, we recall the net promoter
score for customer excellence and the net promoter score for community value as well as one for employee
ownership and then a metric around financial success. And, last year, we had discussed that we didn't feel
that was giving us enough information. So at the retreat, we talked about having lagging indicators that

would measure those success areas and then perhaps identifying leading indicators that could help us look
earlier as to the direction we're going.
So the discussion at the retreat, there were many different ideas that were discussed, ranging from metrics
to general principles of what we would want to measure. And some of the categories of those metrics or
those KPI categories I would call them really came down to the notes I have. here are service delivery,
customer satisfaction, customer personal security, system safety, partnership/community engagement,
employee personal security, employee satisfaction, financial efficiency, and financial stewardship. So, last
week, I was working with Director Catlin to try to arrange some of this and put forward an idea that perhaps
we say, let's take some of the categories that we discussed at the retreat and align them with our strategic
priorities.
So let me start just from customer excellence, for example. So if we were to measure customer excellence,
within there, I think service delivery, how effectively are we meeting the needs of the customer. Customer
satisfaction and customer personal security are categories that were discussed at the retreat that probably
fit well into customer excellence.
And so that's where perhaps, as we discussed at the retreat, we could be looking at a lagging indicator of
what our on-time performance is by mode of transportation. And we talked about leading indicators that
might fall out of that around, for example, our staffing levels versus what's budgeted in terms of staffing
levels. Revenue service hours is another thing that we discussed as potentially a lagging indicator and
things that might fit into that.
Then in the area of community value, it seems to me that system safety or our mechanical safety as well
as the discussions we had around partnership and engagement with our community would fit into that. This
is areas where we talked about things that we would report to MTD, such as preventable accidents per
100,000 miles as a lagging. And we had some discussion around what might lead into that partnership.
We had some discussion around wanting to look at the total partner funds that are unlocked with our
partnership program as a lagging indicator. Perhaps leading indicators could be applications and the like.
Then in the area of employee ownership, I had put forward the idea that the discussions we had around
employee satisfaction and employee personal security would potentially fit into that.
And in the area of financial success, this is where I think the categories of financial efficiency, when we
were talking about metrics such as operating expenses per unlinked passenger trip as well as financial
stewardship. We had some discussion around budget variability would likely fit. I think that we could take a
look at in a proposal is actually our net promoter score, which we're still measuring, is largely a lagging
indicator in some of these areas.
So, for example, in the customer excellence area, I don't know that we would get rid of our net promoter
score from a customer excellence standpoint. I think measuring it still is valuable and helpful. But perhaps
we throw some other additional lagging indicators on the board like on-time performance and our revenue
service hours and service availability and so forth, and identify leading indicators that tell us that we're on
track.
So this is not final. I would certainly like the opportunity to continue to work with the Chair of the Committee
Catlin and Vice Chair of the Committee Guissinger and hear from committee members here and certainly
engage with our General Manager and CEO on the intersection between her performance and Agency
performance and Board performance and identify all of these KPIs. But the effort that's underway, just to

summarize, is catching all of those things that were discussed at the retreat, trying to categorize those, and
then try to fit those categories into our strategic priorities, so we can create a very logical plan.
So that's the state that we're at right now, that I've been engaging with Director Catlin on. And I'll yield the
floor back to Chair Catlin for questions, discussion. And I'm happy to help take notes and continue to try to
categorize things.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. So this, as he mentioned, is a work in progress. And I think
what I would like to propose is that we flesh out a few more details on this what is now a spreadsheet. And
then Director Guissinger and I had a conversation over the weekend, and there were a couple of other
lagging indicators that we think we might want to add, such as number of dropped runs and our progress
toward the System Optimization Plan.
And then we have a customer net promoter score. But we kind of threw around the idea of putting in a
community net promoter score as well because those aren't necessarily the same. And that could be in the
category of partnerships.
And then, as we move forward with this concept, if you are all in agreement that this is the right path forward,
we would like to put some actual numbers to some of these metrics and just kind hone in on what those
numbers might be. So those are my thoughts, and I really want to thank Director Davidson for organizing
this in a way that made sense to me. And I would entertain any thoughts moving forward, but I would
suggest that we work a little bit more on the details of this with your concurrence, Directors Davidson and
Guissinger, and then send it out to the rest of the Committee for consideration and then ultimately share it
with the rest of the Board.
And, of course, GM/CEO Johnson, we'll send that out to you in draft form. And we can have a discussion
about it. GM/CEO Johnson, do you have a comment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I do. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would ask you and the Chair of the Board
and the Vice Chair of this Committee to provide me with the opportunity to confer with you before you share
it with the Board collectively. There's a couple of comments you made. I want to better understand, as we
talk about, you said something relative to we'll put together some numbers.
Are those going to be predicated upon a baseline? What will be the genesis for said numbers, recognizing
in our Work Plan, talk about a myriad of different elements that we'd be undertaking. We do use a third
party. So all of those things will need to be factored in.
When we were talking about other indicators relative to the National Transit Database, I want to be sure we
garner a better understanding of what that means. And then within the framework of what on-time
performance is, are we going to adjust that, i.e. the industry standard is a minute early and then up to five
minutes late. But if we're trying to garner the customer experience, is there going to be discussions relative
to what that may appear to be? And will we be looking at a data set to ensure that we're comfortable with
that?
So I'm throwing out those examples as to why we'd like to have the opportunity to engage because some
of the elements utilizing the nomenclature of drop runs. That may mean something different to you. And I
think it's incumbent upon my team and I to understand the actual meaning behind what that is and how that
may derive the overall service reliability because there's a lot of key factors that come into play as we talk

about how we garner a better understanding of service delivery overarchingly and especially as we look at
the different modes. Paratransit OTP is different than Flex Rides' OTP is different than Rails' OTP, right?
And when you look at mean distance between failures on steel wheels versus rubber tire, that's different
as well. So I would truly appreciate the opportunity to engage prior to disseminating it and not having an
understanding of what we'll be held accountable for. Thank you for your consideration.
PEGGY CATLIN: Absolutely. In fact, I think it's imperative that we get your input as well as your staff's input
on how best to measure and even if these metrics make any sense, for the reasons that you just cited. I
appreciate that. Director Rosenthal. You're on mute.
JACK KROLL: You're not on mute. But we, for whatever reason, can't hear you, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Can you hear me now?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. I'm curious about some of the financial metrics that we'll be using to assist us in
evaluating the performance of the General Manager/CEO. Particularly, we need to make sure we include
things that are going well, things like how our credit rating has increased to AAA and that sort of thing that's
good news.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I guess I want to distinguish here, and, Director Davidson, maybe you can add. We
have our General Manager/CEO performance, and a lot of that is based on the short-term goals, the red
box. And what we're talking about here and trying to develop is our metrics for the agency.
And we'll do that collaboratively with Ms. Johnson and her staff. So there's two separate things that we're
looking at, and I appreciate, Director Rosenthal, your comments. I just want to make sure that this
Committee is mindful of the fact that we have two separate tracks.
And what we're talking about right now is the agency metrics. So, Director Davidson, did you want to
respond to that or should I call on Director Lewis? OK, Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes, I just wanted to comment. When we're setting up metrics and guidelines, to make sure
we include Access-a-Ride. I was glad to hear Ms. Johnson mention that. It definitely is a different animal.
And, sometimes, we just focus on the train and the bus so glad to hear that, and it definitely needs to be
looked into. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that comment. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Chair Catlin. I did just want to touch on a related topic to Director
Rosenthal's comment. I often think about these metrics in the question format, like we talked about at the
retreat. So when we're thinking about service delivery or even customer satisfaction, for that matter, is RTD
meeting the needs of the customer?
And on the financial area, I think-- and thank you, Director Catlin-- it completely aligned with the idea that
we have our General Manager and CEO performance evaluation criteria that we selected for the year and
that we're looking at Agency performance. I think one of the financial questions that comes to mind, is RTD
a good steward of taxpayer dollars. Is it or is it not, and how do you answer that?

And I just wanted to mention that I was literally speaking at an event last week and had a member of the
public ask me almost exactly that question after talking and came up to me and asked the question, how
do we know whether RTD is using its investment well. And I think those are the metrics that those are things
we'd want to be able to point to, just to very factually answer. This is the cost of operating service.
This is the revenue that we take in for that and having succinct ways of articulating that, as well as
articulating improvements in area of the budget and so forth from a Board and from an Agency standpoint.
So I just wanted to highlight that. I think it's interesting to frame it in those questions. And the "is RTD a
good steward of taxpayer dollars" was the one we directionally talked about at the retreat. And that was
literally asked for me almost verbatim by a taxpayer just last week.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. As we look at a path forward, it's clear that this is a work
in progress. And we, I think, need to arrange a meeting with GM/CEO Johnson and her staff to flesh some
of these things out so that they make sense from an Agency performance perspective. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just hearing Director Davidson's comment about how we're using money,
we used to-- actually, Jeff Becker, before he retired, used to do a chart that was a Family of Services chart.
And it showed by route-- not every route maybe-- but how many boardings there were-- I can't remember
if it was per day or per hour-- and what our subsidy was per each route. And I thought that was a really
helpful tool to show people where our money's going, where people are riding our services, that sort of
thing. So I'm wondering if we have something like that. And I see Ms. Johnson's raised her hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead, Ms. Johnson. Would you like to?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I would. Thank you so much. And if my memory serves, I asked this question
before. Jeff Becker was an individual that was in service planning, if that's my recollection.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think so.
DEBRA JOHNSON: When he was here. So with that being said, Director Tisdale and I had an email
exchange, and I raised the issue because while you can showcase per subsidy what's happening on the
rubber tire fleet and the steel wheel fleet to the point that Director Lewis raised, that doesn't capture what
we're expending to subsidize Paratransit services, nor people utilizing Park and Ride Lot services. So it
clearly doesn't give you a global understanding of what's happening. Just about two months ago, I had the
opportunity to go to a study session in the town of Parker, and this conversation ensued.
And when I was preparing for said meeting, I did some reconnaissance and found out that within the town
of Parker, where they talk about they only have the P Bus or a Route 428, there's nearly 10,000 people
registered in that community using Paratransit Services. And then on the flip side of it, you have people
using Park and Ride services to garner access to Light Rail. So that's why I want us to have a more indepth conversation because what I have garnered, and I see Mr. MacLeod is on this call as well.
He and I were having this conversation collectively because it really does not showcase what we're
providing from a service delivery option because it's very limited with just traditional modes and doesn't
encapsulate our true demographic, as it relates to those that are utilizing the varying mobility services that
the agency provides.
So I would encourage you all to take that into consideration. Hence, that's why I believe it's paramount that
we engage in a dialogue about what might be optimal to actually capture Agency performance. Because if
we went solely with what's happening on the rubber tire or the steel wheels, we would be missing a myriad

of different other elements in reference to what we're contributing to from a taxpayer vantage point. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, go ahead. No, that's a really good point. But something along those lines, maybe I
guess what I'm thinking of is something that achieves the current desire for more transparency, that by
pulling it apart like that could be the dashboard that I know your team is working on.
But it did seem like-- it was not a full picture of all we're providing, but I thought it was a good picture that
people could look at and say, oh, I want more service on this bus, but it looks like it's not getting used that
well or that sort of thing. So I'm not saying it needs to be that exact thing. But I think something along those
lines that shows what we're spending and how our services are used could be helpful.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may really quickly?
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Thank you. Thank you, Vice Chair Guissinger. I appreciate that. I think it's
imperative, as the Chair of the Board being Chair Davidson stated, as we talk about cost per revenue hour,
hence, he and I had a conversation because I believe that encapsulates a better understanding of what
we're doing.
So if it costs $100 to put a fully loaded bus out, and you only pick up two people per hour versus another
route that picks up 50, then you see the cost that's being expended relative to the service delivery that we
constantly talk about, recognizing the labor-intensive aspect of overall transit operations. So I hear you
clearly, and I think there is an opportunity to engage and actually utilize a metric that better encapsulates
what it is that we're spending taxpayer dollars on to be good fiduciaries. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Anything else, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'll call on Director Tisdale in a minute. But I think what you're just suggesting, Director
Guissinger, is that that was a tool that we had. Even though it was only part of the picture for overall delivery,
it was still something that you could look at fairly easily. And in the interest of not reinventing the wheel,
perhaps we could use that as a starting point for expanding some of these metrics, as you suggest, Ms.
Johnson. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I have often thought that if you wait long enough,
eventually what you were going to say will be said by other people. So I think that's been accomplished
here. And just to beat a tired phrase into the ground a little bit more, again, let's not let the perfect be the
enemy of the good.
We have some tools. Let's start with that. Let's polish. Let's supplement. Let's make sure that they are
accurate, that they are-- what do we use in survey testing-- it's reliability and something else, I forget.

But we have to make sure that these measures are working. But we don't just dismiss something because
we say, well, that doesn't really capture it. We'll do something else. Well, no, let's start with this, and then
let's add and supplement and work from there. So that point has already been made, and I just second it.
Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, just quickly, you guys know I attend a lot of meetings outside of RTD. And one of the
newest tools that's being used is heatmaps. And that might be a tool to be able to use to look in the districts
and see where different things are used, like Ms. Johnson just mentioned about Park and Rides and stuff
like that so just an idea for developing using heatmaps.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, do you have a response to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, most definitely, we do use heatmaps, so there's a lot of things.
That's why I said it's incumbent that we have conversations because there's things from an operational
aspect of which the Board may not be aware, recognizing the auspices in which the staff and have
collectively doing our core business. So I think it's just ensuring that we can have dialogue and educating
and informing as we go forward. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. There are a lot of layers to this, and I think what we want to do
is keep it at a fairly high level, recognizing that staff will be rolling up this data or these data into broader
categories. That's the way I envision it. And I know, as you dig deep into the agency, there's a lot going on.
And I think we want to make sure that we capture it at a fairly high level for ease of communication to our
constituents. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just want to be the first to proclaim publicly my
ignorance. I'm not familiar with the acronym "HEPAPS."
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Lewis, do you want to elaborate on that a little bit?
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, it's heatmaps. I'm sorry if I didn't pronunciate it correctly. But it's basically using
different colors to indicate propensity for different subject matters. So, for instance, as Ms. Johnson
mentioned about Parker, there could be a color that indicates a large amount of people using Park and
Ride. So it's easy for citizens to read and understand. And it has a-- what's the word I'm looking for-description of what those colors mean on the picture.
DEBRA JOHNSON: A legend.
JAIME LEWIS: Legend, there, thank you, Ms. Johnson. So that's a good tool to use for the citizens because,
like you were saying, Director Tisdale, we don't want to get too-- if you get too detailed, then you start losing
citizens' participation and understanding.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, just to add a little more clarification. So, basically, a heatmap
is just a visual representation of where data is collected. So to the point that Mr. Lewis provided, if there
was an abundance of people utilizing the Park and Ride at 40th and Colorado, then that would be depicted
maybe in green or what have you. And you all have seen various presentations in which we have provided,
where we use legends, and we're utilizing the colors.

And those could be deemed as a heatmap because it could be a chart. It could be a graph. So it could be
an actual map, but it doesn't necessarily have to be. It's just different formats in showcasing data. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And we have seen examples of those from your staff. OK, any other
comments from Directors? Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I don't have a comment on this one, but I do have another matter to bring up. So when
we're done with this, I can take it, just so you know.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, well, moving forward, Director Davidson and I will probably flesh out this a little bit
better this week and then have a discussion with Ms. Johnson and her staff. Ahem. Excuse me. And then
we can get something ready for the next Performance Committee meeting, if that meets with the group's
approval. I see a couple nods. Mr. Kroll, do you have a comment about that?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, the only thing I would add, Committee Chair Catlin, is that this topic of your Agency
Metrics is your main agenda item for your May meeting, according to the Work Plan you all just approved.
So this is coming back to a meeting near you all very soon.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that reminder. And we do have a little bit of work to do prior to that meeting
and to make sure that the Committee members have all the information prior to our discussion. OK. Is that
path forward OK with everyone? OK.
So we have other matters. Ahem. Excuse me. Are there any other matters to discuss? And I believe Director
Guzman has another topic to bring up.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, thank you. I want to be very careful about how I broach the subject, but I do want
to bring it up. We received information that a Director was involved in a CORA request, which led to a
conversation about the A line and stakeholdering between the Directors and DEN being excluded from
conversations as stakeholders. I'm not sure the proper way to bring this up and if this is something that
would need to be handled under perhaps executive privilege, I'm not sure, because it could be a personnel
matter.
But I want to bring it to the Chair's attention that, as a Director who has half of the A line in my district, I
think it's worthy of having a conversation of whether now or later. But we do need to discuss why Directors
were left out of that conversation and how that agreement came to be or that understanding came to be
without reading too much into the peripheral view of what I've seen in that conversation. But I do believe
we need to have a conversation around that. So I'm bringing that up as part of the Performance Committee
because we need to talk about it. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guzman. I'm going to-- I think it was with regard to the Study on
Peña Boulevard. Having been at CDOT, this kind of structure for working groups at a staff level and then
having other discussions at more of a Board or, in that case, Commission level is pretty customary. The
working group works at a staff level, and typically the elected officials or appointed officials are not involved
at that level but then are provided the information and opportunities to weigh in on policy matters at a
different level.
So I'm saying that my experience has been that it's not an exclusion but just a matter of practice and having
working groups that are staff-driven. So I just wanted to make that observation. I think we can have the
discussion.

But I just wanted to make a comment about that, that it's not a deliberate oversight necessarily, but it is
fairly common practice with agencies. I don't know. GM/CEO Johnson, would you like to comment on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure. I don't know the ins and outs of what Director Guzman is specifically speaking
to. But, in generalities, generally, there could be a myriad of different things. I mean, over the course of my
career, I've actually led workgroups on major capital projects. And, basically, I'm dating myself, but when
we were looking at a build-out of different rail lines when I worked for the Santa Clara Valley Transportation
Authority, specifically had workgroups and then worked with the Board of Supervisors at Santa Clara
County and members of the San Jose City Council after the fact.
We had work groups working in tandem to come up with concepts that would be more or less policy. But
not having a clear-cut understanding of what the genesis is, I can just offer that. But I'm more than happy
to engage as appropriate, to help provide any clarification if there is some misunderstanding about someone
being excluded because I'm not necessarily certain, as I indicated, about the genesis of the comment.
Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Certainly. And I was really speaking in generalities but not that specific one. Ahem.
Excuse me. I would suggest to Board Chair Davidson that we maybe take that up at Executive Committee
rather than Performance Committee. Chair Davidson, do you have any comments?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Chair, and thank you, Secretary Guzman. The issue, I believe, at hand
regarding the Colorado Open Records Act request, I was made aware on Friday going into the weekend. I
do not have the details at this time. And I thank the General Manager and Committee Chair Catlin for the
comments on the working group in general from a practice standpoint of technical staff working at the
working group level, and Board and elected officials working at the policy level.
However, not having the details at this time, what I will do is confer with our staff and work with Mr. Kroll
through the Board Office to gather the details that are required for me to then transmit an email to the
Board, providing a little bit more context to that. And then we can decide what, if any, discussion is
appropriate from that point moving forward. So I will get the details on that and then correspond with the
full Board. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I think that's-- does that satisfy your concern, Director
Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: In part. I just want to clarify what I am saying for everybody's edification. On March
1st of 2024, there was a communication sent between a member of DEN and a member of RTD Agency.
That got CORA'd. It's got information in it.
It was shared amongst the Board members by the Director who was involved in that CORA. I'm just
concerned because I've been asked to participate in things like the Alameda BRT or the pending West 38th
Avenue BRT planning, which is also a working group. And I don't want to get mired down in things that don't
belong to the Board any more than any other Director does.
But as an elected official who represents an area that this particular working group could affect or could
participate in that conversation, as a representative of the community, there should be an opportunity to
participate in that conversation, in my humble opinion, in as far as it's necessary, right? I don't need to worry
about whether we're adding another lane to Peña Boulevard or not. But this directly relates to transit along
the Peña Boulevard corridor between Denver and Denver International Airport.

That said, to exclude any public official from a conversation seems a little questionable to me. Members of
City Council here in Denver and I have had conversations about this. I just want to know how an agreement
came to be that wasn't shared with the Board of Directors and who authorized the agreement to be agreed
to because it didn't come before us.
None of us were communicated with. And so I don't want to beat this into the ground. I just want to have a
conversation about it at the appropriate time. I just don't know where that is or which Committee it is.
So I'm satisfied to do this however anybody wants to proceed. Chair Davidson, thank you for the offer to
find out more about this and dig into it and let us know. I'm more curious than anything. This is not a gotcha.
This is just a, hey, here's something that came up.
And I believe when we're dealing with performance, it's not just metrics. It's also how we work with each
other. That's a part of the long vision of the Performance Committee when we do our reviews at the end of
the year. So thank you for the opportunity to bring that up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guzman. And I think what I'm hearing is that, for some of these
various studies or projects or activities, there's inconsistency as to how involvement at the Board level or
other level is. And, perhaps, we need to put some guidelines as to what that entails. So if you're OK, we
can take this up at the Executive Committee after Chair Davidson has a chance to delve into it a little further.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sounds good. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Are there any other matters to discuss? Thank you all for your patience as we work
through this rather murky process for establishing metrics. I appreciate it.
We will come ready to discuss this in depth at or our next meeting, which is scheduled for Monday, May
6th at 8:30. And then we will also follow up with some subsequent discussions in our June meeting. With
no further discussion or other matters, I will adjourn this meeting at 9:17 AM. Thank you all.

