Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 1 of 14

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 7, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held September 4,
2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Member
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen,
and Walker.

Chair Kemp

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Daria Serna,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch,
Susan Wood, Pranaya Shrestha, Kate Iverson, Patrick McLaughlin,
Brenden Summers

Others Present:

Ferd Belz, Brian Cohen, Dana Crawford, Jane Donovan, Sherman
Hamilton, Walter Isenberg, Jim Johnson, David Lewis, Joe Racusley,
Jacob Riger, Jeanne Shreve, Julie Skeen, Bob Wilson
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
meeting to order at 6:14 p.m.

CAC Update
David Lewis shared that the next CAC quarterly meeting would be help on September
19th and that direct invitations would be sent to the Board. He stated that they
expected a lively discussion on the Gold Line and Eagle P3 project. David informed
the Board that the CAC Committee did complete a tour of the Gold line in August.
David Lewis explained that the CAC has activated the selection committee for reapplicants as well as new applicants. He stated that there is 1 new applicant and 4

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 2 of 14

re-applicants. The selection committee is comprised of Directors Bagley and Cohen,
Rick Clarke, Bill Van Meter, and Scott Reed.
Committee Chair Cohen expressed that many of the Board members would love to
attend the CAC quarterly meeting but unfortunately the Board has a previously
scheduled event with the CDOT Commissioners the same evening at exactly the
same time. He explained that with the number of attendees and varying schedules
this was an event that was booked several months ago. He asked that the CAC
committee please accept the Board’s apologies for not being able to attend.
Director Tayer requested that the solicitation for CAC members also be sent to the
Board so that they can get it to individuals who might be interested or a good fit for
the Committee.
Committee Chair Cohen expressed the Board’s thanks to the CAC Committee for
their work and dedication.
II.

Recommended Actions
 Authorization for Property Acquisitions for I-225 Segment 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying
properties as necessary for construction of the I-225 Segment 2 Light Rail
Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under
state eminent domain law.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the September 18, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Walker explained that his employer has property
included in the list so he would be abstaining from discussion
and the vote.
Susan Altes stated that staff previously came to the Board with
the Resolution and Board Action to acquire the properties for
Segment 1 which includes 9 mile to the terminus at Iliff Station.
She explained that with the decision to build the remainder of
the I-225 Line, the remainder of the properties that we will need
to acquire for the project are being brought before the Board.
Susan reminded the Board that the property acquisition is part of
the overall contract with Kiewit. All properties acquired will be
in the name of RTD and must be approved by Susan at the real
property manager. She explained that we would not be involved

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 3 of 14

in the planning of what order the properties will be purchased.
Kiewit will make those decisions based on their build schedule.
To move the project forward as expeditiously as possible, all
properties needed have been brought in front of the Board.
Director Deadwyler asked for further clarification in how Kiewit
would decide what properties to purchase. Director Tobiassen
shared that he has been talking with people who owned
property that was set to be purchased and asked who they
should be directed to for questions they might have. Susan
Altes explained that all property acquisitions must meet RTD’s
standards but our contract with Kiewit allows for them to
determine when the properties are purchased. She also stated
that she would handle any person/company’s questions about
the process and timeline.
Director Daly stated that he believes it was a good idea to give
some of this responsibility to the contractor. He asked if there
were any expected conflicts similar to those experienced on the
West corridor. Susan explained that there have been similar
types of property owners on the Eagle P3 project as in the West
corridor; however, they do not express their opinions in the
same way. Susan believes that since the West line was the first
line it was a very big learning experience for RTD. She
explained that from past experiences, the property owners have
been broken into segments to be contacted rather than
contacting everyone at the same time. Susan stated that she
will encourage the individuals from Kiewit to follow the same
procedures. She recognized that it will probably never be a
pleasant thing to get a letter in the mail saying RTD is going to
acquire your property but that we have made a lot of
improvements in the process.
Director Daly asked if there were any homes that would be
acquired for the I-225 rail line. Susan stated that there was
some property from a Condominium or HOA association but no
homes themselves.
Director Anderson shared that she has been to several public
meetings in Arvada and has heard many positive comments
regarding RTD staff and how the eminent domain issues are
being handled.
Director Deadwyler stated that she too has heard many good
things about our property acquisition group. She asked about
the notes that are sent to people who have property that we are
going to acquire. She explained that several people have been

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 4 of 14

contacting her about when RTD will be acquiring their property.
They were given notes several years ago and want to relinquish
their property but is has taken a very long time. Director
Deadwyler asked if it was possible to give these individuals an
idea of when RTD will be purchasing the property. Susan Altes
explained that many people learn about the potential property
acquisitions during the planning process. There is a line on a
map that goes through their property so they think their property
is going to be acquired. Susan stated that often those
processes happen years before the funding and acquisition. She
also explained that as each corridor and acquisition are different,
all the acquisitions take different times so it is difficult to
provide people with a timeframe. Director Deadwyler expressed
that many of the property owners do not seem to understand
the process. Susan explained that we do try to outline the
process but we will continue to do so.
Director Gore acknowledged that the Right of Way acquisitions
are included in the budget I-225 project budget. He asked how
the cost compares to acquisitions required for other corridors.
Susan explained that there is an overall budget for the
acquisition of the property but it is not divided out by individual
pieces. Rick Clarke stated that he would get the amount to
Director Gore as he did not know it offhand.
Director O’Boyle noted that a small piece of the High Line Canal
was included in the list of properties to be acquired. He stated
that he assumes we would bridge over the canal. He asked if it
would interfere with the walking path. Susan stated that it
would not.
Director McMullen asked who owns the property required from
the Fitzsimons area and how we will be acquiring the land.
Susan stated that it is owned by the Fitzsimons Redevelopment
Group. Marla Lien stated that RTD is currently in negotiations
with the city.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
O’Boyle, McMullen, Tayer and
Tobiassen) and 0 against. Director
Walker abstained from the vote and
Chair Kemp was absent.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 5 of 14

Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED.


Authorization for Property Acquisition for Eagle P3 Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain
additional properties as necessary for construction of the Eagle P3 Commuter
Rail Project and the associated Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and
authorizing staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state
eminent domain law.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the September 18, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Susan Altes explained that design for the Eagle P3 project has
progressed and there have also been some minor changes to
existing designs. The land identified includes Wheat Ridge,
Arvada and one parcel of land that was left off on a previous
Property Acquisition resolution that needed to be corrected.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 14
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
O’Boyle, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Chair Kemp was absent.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED unanimously.



Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) Expansion for future North Metro
Rail Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a Change Order
to Denver Transit Partners (DTP) to design and construct an expansion of the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) to accommodate the ultimate
fleet required for the NMRL service to End Of Line for an amount not to
exceed $17,500,000 for the years 2012 through 2014. Funding for this
Change Order would come from the existing North Metro project cost to

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 6 of 14

complete construction from DUS to NWSS, as identified in the RTD
Amendment financial plan approved by the Board in August 2012. These
funds would be replenished between now and award of the construction
contract for that segment.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to move this item before the full
Board at the September 18, 2012
Board meeting.
Director Gore seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke began by introducing Pranaya Shrestha. Pranaya
has been promoted to the role of Senior Manager of Program
Management and is responsible for all our major corridors. Rick
stated that Pranaya has been with RTD for 15 years and worked
on all of the corridors. Rick shared that Pranaya has done every
jobs he has been given successfully. Rick stated that the job
Pranaya has now is very challenging but he believes he will do
well.
Pranaya Shreshta explained that as can be seen from the
handout, the CRMF is located north of the I-25 and I-70
interchange. The expansion is approximately 200 by 200 feet
and will encompass 6 tracks maintaining 12 vehicles within the
facility. Pranaya stated that constructing the expanded CRMF
now rather than in the future will have the benefit of cost
savings through the design and construction phases; this will be
a concrete step toward the goal of building the North Metro line
to 72nd; and as we learned through past experiences on the
expanded Mariposa and Elati facilities, this will improve the
safety and quality of construction. Pranaya informed the Board
that staff feels if we were to do the same project five to ten
years from now it would go up significantly in cost. He stated
that this facility will be run by DTP.
Jane Donovan reminded the Board that at the last FasTracks
Committee Meeting they were discussing enabling works. She
stated that this is very similar. Director O’Boyle asked for
clarification on the cost savings of the enabling works. Jane
stated that she was able to determine if we built a double track,
it would cost approximately $8 million to build the track and
overhead catenary. If we tried to build a second line next to an
active line in the future, it would cost double. Jane explained
that this would be a similar cost savings.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 7 of 14

Jane stated that when the 2012 APE was completed staff was
assuming we were going to be able to afford the project
because we were going to go to a vote for additional tax
revenue. When that did not occur they came up with three
scenarios: build the CRMF now, build it at the same location in
the future, or build it at a different site in the future. She
explained that if we decided to build the CRMF at the same site
in the future, it would cost at least double based on
conservative estimates. It could easily cost triple the cost it
would today. If the CRMF was built at another site, that would
require a new environments investigation, purchase of right of
way, and getting the facility designed. The proposal from DTP
is a lump sum not to exceed price for design and construction
with a monthly cost for the 30 years DTP runs the facility.
Jane Donovan explained that funds for this project would come
from the money RTD already has to build the North Metro line to
the Stock Show. We would replenish these funds through 4
ways: 1) Grant SunCore a pipeline easement through the right of
way RTD has purchased from them for the North Metro line.
This would be about $10 million; 2) Sell properties where RTD
had to buy the whole property because it created an
uneconomical remnant for the owner but would be of value to
others; 3) Use any savings from favorable bids on the Civil and
Systems construction contracts for the segment between DUS
and NWSS; and 4) Use some of the $90 million contingency
built into the project.
Director Tobiassen asked where the Corning building was in
relation to the CRMF. Rick Clarke stated that it is adjacent to
the site. He explained that the expanded CRMF can be done on
property that RTD already owns which is another reason for the
recommendation.
Director O’Boyle stated that he appreciated the cost savings in
building this now but asked if the CMRF would be functional by
the time RTD took control. Jane Donovan explained that in the
agreement DTP is required to maintain the facility so when it is
turned over to RTD it is in good shape.
Director Deadwyler expressed that she was not sure it was a
good idea to work on this facility before we get to 72nd. She is
concerned that it is never a good idea to take from Paul to pay
Peter with the hope that we can replenish the funds through the
actions Jane Donovan mentioned. She understands that we
could not go to the tax payers this year but stated that does not
mean we cannot go to them forever. Director Deadwyler feels

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 8 of 14

that we are now trying to push some of these items too quickly.
Jane Donovan explained that this is a one-time offer. If RTD
does not move forward this month the offer made by DTP is off
the table. She stated that we would then need to go forward
with one of the other two options.
Director Hoy expressed that his understanding was that final
design was being completed and construction was set to start
soon. He stated that his understanding is we do it now or pay
two or three times as much for a facility that we will need in the
future. Rick Clarke stated that was why staff was bringing this
item before the Board even though not all of the funding is in
place. He explained that they have been working with DTP and
they have been holding off on beginning construction but they
cannot continue to do so and remain on schedule. Pranaya
stated that DTP has also agreed if the expansion was approved
for the CRMF it would not affect the overall project schedule.
General Manager Washington reiterated that this is another way
we are looking ahead to determine what we can leverage now.
He stated that staff feels strongly that this is the time to expand
the facility because if we do not, we will be looking at paying
double. General Manager explained that staff believes we can
get to 72nd. He believes this will save the District millions of
dollars and is the fiscally responsible thing to do.
Director Walker asked if there were any uses for the facility
before we get to 72nd. Jane stated that DTP would use the
space to make their maintenance easier. She believes it would
also benefit RTD.
Director Anderson stated that people always ask why
government does not act more like businesses. She feels that
this is a business decision and it is a good business decision.
She expressed her support of the motion.
Director McMullen asked if this facility would also accommodate
trains from the Longmont facility. He also shared that several
years ago when RTD purchased all of the Light Rail cars he has
constituents asking why we were spending so much money on
lines that we were not even sure we were going to build;
however, now we have the cars we need and we got them for a
substantial savings. Director McMullen expressed his support
for this action as well. General Manager Washington explained
that this facility would just service the Eagle and North Metro
lines.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 9 of 14

Director Tayer expressed his support as well. He asked staff to
keep track of how the funds are replenished. He stated it would
be good to know if RTD sells property, etc. Rick Clarke said
that staff would come back to the Board with those actions as
they require approval.
Director Hoy wanted to clarify that if the North Metro line only
went to the Stock Show we would not have a need immediately
for this expanded facility but if we are able to get to 72nd we
will need this to maintain the trains. Jane Donovan stated that
was correct.
Director Malpiede thanked staff for their diligence with the
Corning Company. She shared that she toured the facility and
met with the employees. They each took a picture and wrote
about their family and what Corning meant to them. She also
stated that she would be supporting this item.
Director Walker shared that he buys property for a living. He is
always pushing his superiors to buy more than is needed.
Director Walker stated that in one instance in to 80s his
company could buy a whole block in Five Points for $80
thousand but now bought about 500 sq. feet for $250
thousand. He stated that if the value of something goes up it
can always be sold later but it is much harder to come up with
the funding if you need to purchase it later. He expressed his
support and thanked staff for looking ahead.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Gore, Hoy,
James, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker) and 1 against (Deadwyler).
Chair Kemp was absent.
Committee Chair Cohen declared the
motion PASSED.

I.

Updates
 Downtown Circulator
Brian Welch provided the Board with a Power Point presentation on the
Downtown Denver Circulator Project. General Manager Washington explained
that discussion with DDP and the City are ongoing to try to implement the
original plan but they have indicated that they do not have the budget to share

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 10 of 14

the Operation and Maintenance costs.
Director Tobiassen stated that he thought the plan looked great. He also
expressed that he has been getting many questions about people going from
Denver Union Station to a Rockies game. This plan will get them within a
block of Coors Field and for people in Aurora that is a big deal. Director
Tobiassen asked if there would be any additional costs with street
maintenance. He also asked if staff had done any outreach to the community
to determine if they felt it was worth funding the original plan. Brian Welch
stated the only additional street maintenance would be from the bus bulbs.
This is not expected to be a significant expenditure. Brian explained that staff
is beginning the process of reaching out to the community now that we have
the numbers and both option.
Director Malpiede shared that she has been receiving many phone calls about
this plan. She expressed her concern over the statement that this was an
assumed 3-way partnership. She asked if there had been any discussion or
documentation with DDP and the City of Denver on the cost sharing. Bill Van
Meter stated that there is no formal documentation but the study was funded
by the City of Denver. Brian Welch explained that this study made references
to the cost but not who would be responsible. Bill Van Meter stressed that it
did not identify RTD, the City of Denver, or DDP as the owner of the project.
Director James thanked the team for approaching the Board about this plan in
advance. He stated that it gave the Board time to meet with stakeholders.
He expressed that their reaction was not positive and there seems to be some
hesitation and misunderstanding. This is a situation in which everyone is
short of money today. He asked where the money will be spent if not on the
Circulator Busses. Brian Welch explained that this will only reduce the number
of busses needed by one so the capital costs will be the same. He stated that
this also allows for the ability to increase the service should a partner wish to
assist in funding. He explained that if we were to do a full service, 7-days a
week it would cost about $2 million per year. The proposed service is about
$850 thousand. Bill Van Meter stated that this would free up funds for
implementation of other FasTracks Capital or Operating projects.
Director Daly expressed is disappointment that the City is not willing to help
with the funding. He hopes that we can negotiate with them to offer this
expanded service. Director Daly stressed that he believes this should be a
free service. He believes if you start to charge for this service it will lead to
high wait times and low ridership. Brian Welch explained that if you have a
fare based circulator right next to the free Mall Shuttle not many people would
ride the fare based service.
Director Malpiede asked to clarify that the service is every 5 minutes during
the peak, 10 minutes during off peak during the morning and evening only. It

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 11 of 14

would not run for lunch, nights or weekends. Bill Van Meter explained that
those times would be covered by the Mall Shuttle.
Director Bagley asked how many busses RTD needed to purchase. Brian
Welch stated we would need eleven busses. Director Bagley also asked what
kind of bus would be purchased for this service. He stated that his
understanding is that the Mall Shuttle cannot be utilized on this route. He
expressed his concern that we are adding another kind of bus to the fleet
because it enhances the issues of safety, training, and maintenance.
Director James asked for clarification on the expected ridership. He expressed
his agreement with Director Daly that this should be a free service. Brian
stated that this service is anticipated to have 12,000 riders per day.
Director McMullen expressed that he feels this is a good starting point. It is a
new service that can always be expanded in the future. He shared that from
his experience over the last few years, it seems that we are expected to
provide all the services they want and also pay for the entire project. He
stated that he is amazed at how much 4 pennies on a $10 purchase can buy.
Director O’Boyle thanked General Manager Washington for his remarks and
dedication to pursuing a collaboration with DDP and the City and County of
Denver. He feels like these agencies are saying they like the service and want
it to be free but it is not in their budget. He believes this is a copout. Director
O’Boyle suggested delaying the service for a year to give these agencies time
to find a way to fit it into their budgets.
Director Walker asked if we would really see the ridership figures from the
presentation if the Circulator was not added. He asked if there would be a
detriment to commerce Downtown. Brian Welch stated that it would most
likely be a detriment to RTD ridership if the Circulator was not added. He
explained that it is a combination of the number of people but also the manner
in which they will be departing from Denver Union Station. When there is a
significant discharge of people that cannot get on another service to get to the
end of the mall they will start not using our service. He stressed that if
conditions are undesirable, we will lose ridership.
Director McMullen expressed concern that this will make a bigger divide
between the haves and the have-nots. He stated that he is excited and will
use this service but we need to remember the people who are feeling
disenfranchised. We need to get to 72nd and look at real solutions for getting
the North to buy in again.
Director Tayer stated that this is a classic example of the center of a system
needing to be strong. He explained that whether you get to DUS on a bus or
train the Circulator is going to be so critical for making sure the experience is

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 12 of 14

pleasant. He expressed his support for the current approach and the economy
of scale.
Director Malpiede agreed with Director Tayer’s comments. She also stated
that she does not want to forget the working poor or families with young
children. She knows that the free Mall Shuttle is important to these people
and thinks the Circulator will be as well.
Director James expressed concern that the Circulator Busses will no longer go
to the Art Museum. He feels we have an area with new development and a
real potential for ridership but it is extremely underserved. He encouraged
staff to work as hard as possible with the City to get this service to the
museum.
Director Anderson expressed that she also believes it important for the core to
be strong to take care of all the people coming from the suburbs. She stated
that if the core is strong than there is a reason for other services to exist; but
if the core is not strong, there is no reason to have the train go anywhere.
Director Gore asked at what date a decision needed to be made for
implementation of this service to coincide with the opening of DUS. Brian
Welch stated that we had time. The critical part of the process is the
procurement of the busses.


FasTracks Moving Forward
General Manager Washington expressed that he believes the discussion of the
Circulator is a great segue into this update. He provided the Board with a
formal Power Point presentation of some cost saving measures to move
FasTracks forward at a more rapid pace. He stated that these measures will
not make RTD popular but if we have a desire to do more the Board will need
to make some of these tough decisions. General Manager explained that staff
would bring cost reducing/revenue enhancing items to the Board throughout
the end of the year. The savings/revenues will be accumulated in an internal
account to be applied to FasTracks projects the Board approves.
Rick Clarke explained that none of the cost reducing/revenue enhancing items
will be easy decisions. He stated that all of the items have pros and cons that
will be clearly laid out for the Board.
Director James expressed that listening to this makes him think of the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force. He asked how these proposals fit in with the Task
Force. General Manager Washington explained that we are tracking the Fiscal
Sustainability recommendations. He stated that Terry Howerter has been
brought into the group that is evaluating the cost reducing/revenue enhancing
items to make sure these recommendations match the Fiscal Sustainability
recommendations.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 13 of 14

Director Bagley stated that he is happy we are doing this effort. It reminds
him of going through your own household budget. He believes this is very
prudent. He thinks by doing this and having the public understand what we
are doing, it demonstrates that we are looking for savings and opportunities to
fund new project. Director Bagley stated that we may not find as much as we
need but at least we are looking.
Director McMullen recognized the Denver and Aurora committed more than
2% of the cost to the I-225 Rail Line. He asked if staff could provide him
with an exact amount. He shared that this process reminds him of the value
engineering that the Board and staff went through for the West corridor.
Director McMullen explained that the Directors from that area were very
worried that they were not going to get a great line. He believes looking at
the line today you cannot see anything that appears cheap. He expressed his
enthusiasm for applying this to the whole district. Director McMullen stated
that we have nothing to lose and everything to gain by doing this process.
Director Gore expressed his appreciation for staff leaving no stone unturned
and really working to find every cent. Director Daly reiterated that this
demonstrates we are doing everything possible to restore the FasTracks plan.
Director Cohen stated that he met with Mayor Bob Murphy and they had a
chance to discuss the proposed change in frequency for the West line. He
shared that Mayor Murphy clearly understands the importance of finding every
spare nickel and supports the frequency proposal. Director Cohen stated that
he applauds these efforts that will be looked at over the next several months.
Director Hoy thanked Management and the other Directors for these efforts.
He believes it goes a long way in showing people that we are going to get the
North Metro done.


NATA Resolutions
General Manager Washington stated he is sure the Board has had a chance to
review the NATA resolution. He believes the Board has acknowledged and
recognized the North Metro and Northwest corridors as the priorities. He
stated that includes the BRT and mobility study. He expressed that RTD is
looking forward to working with the NATA group, the US 36 group, and other
groups in the north. However, he wants to ensure that this does not hinder
the District from being able to pursue opportunities in other areas should the
present themselves.
Director Cohen recognized the time and effort that went into crafting the
resolution. He echoed General Manager Washington’s statement that while he
is committed to seeing an investment in the North Metro and Northwest, he
cannot make a decision about a document that if the board adhered to
exactly, could hinder the Board’s ability to move forward.

Minutes of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on September 4, 2012
Page 14 of 14

II.

Other Matters
Director Tobiassen shared that Aurora Council Member Melissa Miller resigned. He
expressed his appreciation for her dedication and stated that she will be missed.
Director Cohen reminded the Board that on September 15th there is the Tour de
FasTracks event as well as the Bus Roadeo. He stated that he hopes everyone will
be able to attend the CDOT function on September 19th.
General Manager Washington stated that he believes we do not talk about our Base
Systems enough. He informed the Board that accidents are down by about 41%
year to date. He expressed that this is some great work by the Bus Operations team.
He explained that RTD started refresher training and this is really paying off. General
Manager shared that he will be gone for the Operations and Customer Service
meeting so he wanted to make sure to mention this statistic.
Director James asked if this was system wide. Bruce Abel stated that the 41% is
internal. General Manager Washington explained that we are seeing the same trend
on the private side but he will provide the Board with an exact statistic.

III.

Next Meeting Date – October 16, 2012

IV.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

