Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 28. 2009 at
5:30p.m. Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 28, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 28,
2009 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Others Present:
***
Call to Order:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Busck, Christopher, Cohen,
James, Martinez, Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen. O’Boyle
joined later via phone.

Directors Brohl, Chacon, Daly, and McMullen.
Phil Washington, Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Marla
Lien, Dave Genova, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria Serna,
Julie Skeen, Bill Sirois, Bill VanMeter

Roger Sherman-CRL, Jeff Lieb-Denver Post
Director Brohl called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

I. FRESC Presentation on Transit Agency Policies and practices to Encourage
Affordable TOD
Director Christopher introduced Robin Kniech, FRESC, and Melinda Pollack,
Enterprise Community, who would be the presenters on affordable housing.
He stated that he found the presentation enlightening on what other transit
properties are doing in the area of affordable housing.
Robin and Melinda team-tagged in the presenting of this information. A copy
of the presentation is available in the Board office in the Study Session Minute
book.
After the presentation a Q&A session was offered. Director Bagley expressed
he felt this was an appropriate opportunity to hear this presentation and
requested an electronic copy for the Board office. He asked questions around
how does this fit into any value capturing revenue strategy for RTD. Melinda
responded there are some simple short-term activities but the long term has

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 28. 2009 at
5:30p.m. Page 2 of 3
numerous options and complexity of capturing value.
Director Bagley clarified his question to reflect on could affordable housing
impact on land value where RTD is looking to capture revenue. Could this
present a dichotomy in strategies?
Where do the policies come from? Robin responded various sources including
political leadership of mayors, community involvement and agency leadership.
Director Bagley then commented that the mountainous agencies should be
removed from this study as there is a lack of comparability to RTD.
Director Bagley asked if Bill Sirois wanted to speak. Bill stated the current
policy supports the mission of RTD and it has been Cal’s mantra that RTD
represents only the T (transit) in TOD. He expressed RTD is doing the best it
can given the legislative constraints and there is no regional consensus on
affordable housing.
Director Christopher agreed with Bill Sirois that there is no one size fit all.
This does provide an opportunity to partner with public housing, non-profits
and others in the area of affordable housing. The question at the end of the
day is given the current state statute that prevents RTD from providing
residential housing on RTD property, what is the Board willing to do in
affordable housing arena as it relates to the RTD sites?
Director Tayer inquired if there were a list of specific things that FRESC and
Enterprise feels RTD is missing and would they compile such a list. An ad hoc
committee consisting of Director Tayer, Christopher, Robin, Melinda and Bill
Sirois will work together to define such a list.
Director Martinez commented that right now as an agency our hands may be
tied. However, there are things they can do as individuals such as work with
municipalities to put policies in place. One of the interesting things about
Denver is it has an affordable housing policy but developers can opt to buy
out of it. One of the things he suggested was seeing if they could make this
policy different for transit systems. They could advocate taking the message
to legislators to help craft a new policy.
Robin commented that right now the city of Denver is reviewing this policy to
add language that makes it at the discretion of the city.
II. Update on PI Plans for P3
Phil Washington commented that the staff had participated in a grueling but
productive retreat today to review the FasTracks plan. He stated there were
two dates staff is preparing for:
 August 4—They will present a FasTracks briefing to the Board on some
things that came out of the retreat: provide an overview of their
progress, sales tax revenue, guiding principles, strategic action plan for
going forward and a schedule for the coming months.
 August 5, Metro Mayors Meeting—Phil Washington will provide a
general overview. He plans to take all the construction managers for
each of the corridors to introduce who they are and their qualifications
to the metro mayors. He will present FasTracks program progress,
challenges and our intent to pursue all sources of funding. He will
garnish the metro mayors input and will share the going forward

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 28. 2009 at
5:30p.m. Page 3 of 3
lessons learned. He will also update them on their interaction with
officials in Washington and how Denver is perceived locally and
nationally around the country, including a recent trip planned by staff
to meet with the DOT, Deputy FTA administrator.
 August 18, Metro Mayor Task Force-Phil will be prepared to discuss
more in detail at this meeting.
Director Martinez commented it is good to share the lessons learned and
sharing of information as we move forward.
Director Christopher added he is impressed with the idea of taking the corridor
managers with him to the metro mayors meeting. He thinks this is a good
approach.
Director Bagley commented that he is more comfortable now with the
approach.
Phil Washington acknowledged the leadership of Rick Clarke and Bill Van
Meter in the staff retreat. Rick shard they had spent approximately six hours
together and he will summarize and present in next week’s meeting. He will
look at the approved financial plan along with doing lots of work in non-P3
corridors. They will provide a positive plan to move ahead.

III.

Other Matters
Director Bagley passed out handouts to the Board members on CEO
Succession Planning and planning productive meetings.
Phil Washington provided an update on the bus accident on I-225 in which 1
person was killed. He stated that Scott Reed, Greg Yates, Dave Genova,
himself and various others had pulled all nighters staying abreast of the
situation. The RTD driver was injured, required several stitches but was
released. The bus had extensive damage.
Chair Kemp added he had gone to District Shops to review the bus damage.
This was quite a serious accident and our condolences go to the family of the
driver who was killed. They estimate the damage to the bus will exceed 100K
and this was a 2-year old bus in the fleet.

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 6:35 p.m.

