Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 16, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 16, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 16, 2009
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, 2nd Vice-Chair Busck; Treasurer Tayer (via
phone) Secretary Daly; Director Bagley.

Board Member Absent:

Vice-Chair Chris Martinez

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella; Paula Perdue, Brian Iacono, John Dawson

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb, Denver Post

Call to Order:

Chair Lee Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:02
p.m.

Cal Marsella reviewed the action items on the April Board agenda. There were
no major concerns.

I.

April Board Meeting Agenda Review
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to move the full
Board agenda ahead for the Board approval on
April 21, 2009.

Director Daly seconded the motion.
Vote on
The Motion: The Motion PASSED unanimously.


Unanimous Consent



North Metro Corridor – Release of Draft Environmental Impact
Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors direct the General Manager to release the
North Metro Corridor Draft Environmental Impact Statement
(DEIS) for public and agency review. This is a critical step in the
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and provides

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 16, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 2 of 6
the public and interested agencies with an opportunity to review
the document and provide comments.


Contract Amendment to URS for FEIS and Advanced Basic
Engineering for North Metro
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors direct the General Manager to negotiate a
contract amendment for URS, not to exceed $6,900,000, to
complete the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Advanced
Basic Engineering for the North Metro Corridor project.



Approval for West Corridor Full Notice to Proceed (NTP) for
construction of the civil/track work on the West Corridor to
Denver Transit Construction Group contract No. 16-FF-W01
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designees to execute all documents necessary to award and
implement a contract amendment for construction of the
civil/track work for the West Corridor to Denver Transit
Construction Group (DTCG). This is an amendment that allows
the DTCG to proceed from pre construction phase one work (22
task orders) to full construction of the west corridor civil/track
work as defined by the Feb 12, 2009 Issued for Construction
Documents. DTCGs’ construction amount for the civil/track work
is not to exceed $346,246,968. Funding for this work is included
in the 2009 Adopted Budget and the FasTracks Financial Plan for
the years 2010-1012.



Recommendation for Contract Award to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc.
for West Corridor Systems Construction Service.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
award a contract to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. (BBRI) in the amount
of $65,259,741.52 for the West Corridor Systems Construction
Services Contract. The work in this Contract includes providing
the Overhead Contact System, Traction Power Substations, and
Signal System for the West Corridor Project. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the West
Corridor and in the FasTracks financial plan for the West Corridor
Project in the years 2010-2012.



Authorization to the General Manager for Fiscal Authority of
$707.6 million for the West Corridor Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors pass the attached Resolution Number___,
Series 2009, to provide the General Manager or designee with

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 16, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 3 of 6
fiscal authority in the amount not to exceed the project budget of
$707.6 million. This authority shall include the ability to execute
contracts, change orders and contract modifications, agreements
and purchases within the $707.6 budgeted amount. RTD will
continue to report extensively to the board including the regular
monthly reports and periodic updates to the Board committees.
Major decisions will be discussed with the Board prior to action.


Approval for Providing Construction Funding to the Denver
Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) for Denver Union
Station (DUS) Phase 1 Construction
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter
into an IGA w/ DUSPA to provide funding in the amount not to
exceed $40,000,000 to begin Phase I construction of the DUS
project. This funding will allow for a Limited Notice to Proceed
to the Design/Builder (D/B) contractor, Kiewit, once the
contract documents are finalized, approved and executed
between DUSPA and Kiewit. The IGA will only be executed
upon terms acceptable to RTD including:


Incorporation of RTD technical requirements



DBE goals of 16% for the D/B contractor



Acceptable levels for RTD oversight of the project

Funding for this IGA is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for
the Denver Union Station Project.


Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the
General Manager to Execute a Purchase and Sale Agreement
(PSA) for the North Wing and Triangle Parcels at Denver Union
Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the
General Manager to execute Purchase and Sale Agreements (PSA)
for the North Wing and Triangle parcels at Denver Union Station
(DUS) with the Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) or
an affiliated designee in the amount not less than $1.51 million
for the North Wing and $4 million for the Triangle. The Board of
Directors authorized the General Manager to execute such an
agreement in January 2008. The title company has made a Board
resolution authorizing the sale and requirement of closing.



Construction Contract Award to Railroad Specialties, Inc. for Elati
Maintenance Facility North Yard Expansion
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 16, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 4 of 6
designee, to execute all documents necessary to award a
construction contract to Railroad Specialties, Inc. in the amount of
$2,900,000 for the Elati Maintenance Facility North Yard
Expansion at the Elati Maintenance Facility. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the Light Rail
Maintenance Facility Project.


Budget Transfer for US36 BRT Phase 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors approve a budget transfer in the amount of
$7,743,842 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the US
36 BRT Phase 2 budget for the US 36 queue jumps and final
design for the pedestrian overpass at the Table Mesa park-n-Ride.
The FasTracks Contingency Reserve will be replenished in the
2009 Amended Budget through $7,593,842 of funding from the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for the queue
jumps and $150,000 in Senate Bill 1 funding for the Table Mesa
pedestrian overpass.



IT Consultant – Universe/Legacy Programmers (Exercise Third
Year Option)
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to exercise the third one year option in
the amount of $225,000 to extend the current contract for an IT
Consultant-UniVerse/Legacy
Programmer
(16DK001).
This
contract was originally awarded May 1 st, 2006 to 5280 Solutions,
LLC (a WSCA company) through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial year plus three one year options to
renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The third
one year option is to begin on May 1, 2009 and remain in effect
for one year until April 30, 2010. The contract is being brought to
the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per RTD
Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.



Recommended Action



Issuance of Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors direct staff to issue the Eagle Project
Request for Proposals (RFP) in May 2009 to allow the East
corridor and Gold Line to be jointly procured and delivered under a
single concession agreement so that both corridors may open for
passenger service in 2015 in accordance with the FasTracks
program.

(See John Tayer’s attached amendment proposal)

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 16, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 5 of 6

II.



Request for Approval of the Denver Union Station Utility
Relocation Agreements with Individual Utilities
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to: 1) execute Utility Relocation Agreements (URAs) and
any other documentation necessary, including work orders, to
accomplish the relocation of utilities affected by the Denver Union
Station (DUS) project; and 2) delegate signature authority for each
of the approved URAs and other documentation, including work
orders, necessary to accomplish utility relocation for the DUS
project.



Amendment to the “AGREEMENT REGARDING REIMBURSEMENT
FOR COSTS OF RELOCATION OF UTILITIES” with the Central
Platte Valley Metro District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that RTD approve an amendment with the Central Platte Valley
Metropolitan District (CPVMD) pertaining to the “AGREEMENT
REGARDING REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF RELOCATION OF
UTILITIES”. The amendment will provide an additional $75,000 to
the original agreement for an amount not to exceed $150,000 for
other utility relocations, bringing the total amount to $225,000,
allowing the CPVMD to install for RTD at RTD’s cost a new fire
line, underground electrical conduit and a new electrical vault
serving the future underground bus facility at Denver Union
Station (DUS). Funding for this work is included in the 2009
Adopted Budget for the Denver Union Station project.

GM Contract Amendment
Director Busck, Chair of the GM Evaluation Committee, indicated
there was agreement from this committee to forward the Amendment
to the GM Employment Agreement to the full Board for approval. He
expressed appreciation to Cal Marsella for his generous offer and
innovative leadership during these economic times to take a 3% pay
decrease in his 2008 bonus payout and his 2009 raise. This is
commensurate with what the salary employees and the contractors
have been asked to do.
Cal Marsella reiterated that this was the right thing to do and he was
happy to contribute in this manner.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 16, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 6 of 6
III.

Metro Mayors Task Force Update
Chair Kemp indicated that the Metro Mayors Task Force work is
essentially done until the Board makes a decision about going to the
ballot. There are no more officially scheduled MMC meetings.
Director Busck added that it is important to understand that during
these five months, the Metro Mayors did not find any OOPS in the
data and confirmed that the process and information provided by RTD
is good. RTD will continue its ongoing relationship with the Metro
Mayors and other key stakeholders such as business leaders to
ensure the partnership works and the decisions made are unified in
the community.

IV.

Other Matters
Brian Iacono provided an overview of the current diesel fuel situation
and asked the Board’s direction on which strategy to pursue. He
stated that RTD has a flexible contract with Suncor. He stated we are
currently at about a $1.96 lock that fluctuates between $1.65 and
$2.00. He provided a chart since last year showing the fluctuations
in three indices used for measuring diesel fuel price changes.
The recommended proposal from Cal Marsella and Brian was for the
Board to approve a range with a low of $1.85 to a high of $2.00 to
lock in at the 90% that would support our budgeting strategy. Chair
Kemp added that he is OK with the proposed range but wanted them
to focus on if the trending indicator pointed to an even better position
to take this under consideration. He noted that every penny
difference amounted to $100K in costs. The Executive Committee
was in agreement with this strategy.
Director Busck asked about exploring a collar with the vendor and
John Dawson/Brian explained we have investigated this option but
the premium was too high.
Executive Committee requested Brian to provide a 5-minute recap to
the full Board on Tuesday, April 21.
Chair Kemp shared that the Daniel’s Foundation had made a
presentation to Jim Moffatt, the bus driver who had gotten injured
helping riders across the street, at the Chopper Restaurant in Cherry
Creek.
Chair Kemp had called Jim and offered a personal
congratulations and best wishes from the Board.

V.

Motion to Move to Executive Session
Director Busck made the motion to move into Executive Session to
discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) labor negotiations. Director Daly
seconded the motion. The motion passed.

VI.

The meeting adjourned at 12:44 p.m. to Executive Session.

