2024-07-30
Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: --has moved to in-person meetings for our monthly gatherings. Please note that
committee meetings of the Board of Directors are still being held remotely and are recorded via Zoom.
Audio and video recordings of the meetings, along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, are posted as
soon as practicable to the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we are also providing communication access realtime translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should please send an email to the RTD Board
Office at the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to have access to a transcript of this meeting in Spanish as well. At this time, I will now ask Secretary
Guzman to please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance-- and if you could please leave your mic on.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic
for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very kindly, Secretary Guzman. At this time, I'll now ask Director Lewis to
please read our land acknowledgment.
JAIME LEWIS: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains
operate is a traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that
are historically tied to these lands.
We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, and hills,
and plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to
dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples and
recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, sir. I will now call for the roll and determine a quorum. Treasurer
Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: President.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek? He is absent. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?-- is absent. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Director Davidson speaking. I am here as well. At the moment, that is 13
present and two absent.
I'll note for the sake of the record if we are joined by any other directors. With 13 present, we do have a
quorum.
There are no retiree awards this evening. And the third quarter retiree awards will be announced at the
September Board meeting-- meeting of the Board of Directors.
We'll next move to our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the
Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by
those who are participating remotely.

For those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you have not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any
additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, you can raise your virtual
hand by pressing star-9 on your phone or raise your virtual hand on Zoom. Staff will unmute you when it
is your turn to speak. And if you are dialed in via phone, press star-6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that, by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments can be submitted in writing to the Board Office. If any speaker has
documentation or reference material for the Board or if any member of the public would like to submit
written comments, you can email those materials or comments to the Board Office at the email address
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board does not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the Board at the same email address
mentioned.
Speakers should please begin their remarks by stating their names. And you will have up to three minutes
to provide your comments. I will let you know when that time has elapsed.
We'll start with our in-person speakers at this time. And on the list, I first have-- and please forgive me if I
mispronounce your name. We have Jackson Ledesma here to speak. If you could please come up to the
podium, introduce-- I'm sorry?
JACK KROLL: [INAUDIBLE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Ah, thank you. OK. Oh, I'm sorry. I missed that on the checkmark. My apologies.
Thank you very much. That's my fault. We'll next go to Chris Nicholson, please.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Hello, everyone. I want to start off, because you're in the middle of CBA
negotiations, by saying that we have phenomenal transit workers. And I know that because they keep
getting hired away by UPS. And the Board should do everything it can in this negotiation to create
working conditions so good they attract people to RTD rather than driving them away.
Now, one important part of operators' jobs is collecting fare payment. When it comes to fare payment,
RTD should have a simple goal to make it as easy and frictionless as possible to pay for transit.
The best way to accomplish that goal is credit card tap-to-pay, as we've seen in New York. And I'm glad
to hear that the agency is taking that seriously. There's no reason to wait. But not everyone has a debit or
a credit card. And sometimes people need to pay for other people.
That's why even systems like MTA that have tap-to-pay also have ticket machines. And the reason I bring
up tap-to-pay is that, when you install the new ticket machines on the agenda tonight, they will serve a
radically different purpose than they do today.

Most tourists will not use them to buy a single ticket. They will simply tap and walk onto the train at DIA.
The overwhelming majority of people who step onto the Colfax BRT will do the same. Instead, these
machines will serve people who need to pay in cash or who want to load a balance on a card.
So it's critical, for example, that all of these machines can load, reload, and dispense my ride cards for
people purchasing more than a day pass worth of value. It's important that they can print single-use paper
tickets that can be scanned by the readers. Masabi's hardware does support static barcodes, and we
should take advantage of this.
In terms of the Board's responsibility, I think you should see this as a critical opportunity to look at the
entire system of fare payment, how people pay for RTD, where the friction points are, and how you
expect that to change when you move toward offering credit card tap-to-pay.
Each decision like this has to be part of a cohesive whole. Each purchase does not just fall out of a
coconut tree. It exists in the context of the purchases you will make and those made by boards before
you.
I ask you, as I did two months ago in different words, imagine what fair payments can be like unburdened
by what they have been. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. We'll next move to our next in-person
speaker. This is Emma Griffin, please.
EMMA GRIFFIN: Hello, my name is Emma Griffin. Thank you for holding this meeting and giving me a
chance to speak. I live in District A in Congress Park. And I'm a member of Greater Denver Transit.
Like many Denverites, I use the A Line to get downtown and to the airport. The A Line is one of RTD's
most successful transit projects and the piece of infrastructure I'm personally thankful exists.
I saw recently that RTD celebrated 50 million riders on the A Line, which is certainly cause for celebration,
which is why I was surprised when I read the Denverite article detailing about how the vote by Denver
City Council that would have potentially held funding for a highway expansion project until the airport
studied a core transit alternative was due in part to Denver City Councilwoman Flor Alvidrez's vote being
flipped to support the Pena expansion following a conversation with an RTD representative.
I ask the Board to explain why we wouldn't do everything in our power to make the environmentally
conscious decision to take the A line downtown to the airport or any of the stops in between, the both
easiest and most obvious decision for riders. Making driving to the airport easier will further incentivize
individuals to drive in their cars instead of taking public transit for part or all of their trips.
Furthermore, I wanted to call out the proposed September service changes for not restoring the E and H
lines to 15-m minute service and instead only restoring those lines to 30-minute service. In doing so, RTD
jeopardizes further losing light rail riders who feel like they can't reliably rely on our light rail lines to
provide frequent service year round.
While I understand maintenance work is necessary and these adjustments have been made in
accordance with that, the continued lack of schedule, provision, and adjustments makes it difficult for
riders to trust that they will get to where they need to be on time. RTD needs to focus on building trust
with riders, and making sure people feel like they can rely on the train is key to that.

Thank you for providing public transit to our community and allowing me to speak today. Here's to finding
solutions to restoring ridership to pre-pandemic levels.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comment. Next, we have Joe Meyer, please.
JOE MEYER: Good evening. Thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. My name is Joe. And I'm
here to echo the letter sent by Greater Denver Transit that called for a need for a top-to-bottom review of
the service planning process to make it more modern and flexible.
It's likely too late now to update service planning, flexible agile schedule changes to make the E Line
riders have a better experience when traveling anywhere between Denver and the Tech Center. But I
hope that an overhaul of that planning process can make this issue non-existent in the future when other
maintenance work needs to be done.
I acknowledge that maintenance is needed, that slow zones are a reality, that keeping our safety as riders
paramount is important. And I fully agree with the organization for keeping safety important, doing the
maintenance that they need to do. But I don't think that means you can just rely on, frankly, terrible
schedules to move riders through that corridor.
One of the excuses given for the lack of more agile schedule changes between May and September was
that a lot of connections analyses would need to be made-- hey, we need to check what happens if we
adjust train timing, adjust bus timing-- how does it affect other connections.
If you know what your slow zones are, how long they are, you know the time it takes for that E Line train
or that H Line train to go from one station to the adjacent one. That can be incorporated into a temporary
schedule. And that schedule can be maintained as long as is needed until that slow zone is removed or
additional ones are added.
I don't see anything stopping RTD from making these on-the-fly schedule changes so that riders know
what they're getting, what they're getting into, what they can expect. You don't need to do a connections
analysis there.
That train is going to be 20 minutes late already. You didn't need to do a connections analysis for that
train to be late. So just publish the time that it's going to take for that train to move between stations when
you know how long and what speed the slow zones are.
With all of that being said, there's opportunities to make the experience better for riders on other parts of
the system. And I urge the Board to hold RTD management accountable to do this.
One suggestion would be restoring the G Line to 15-minute frequencies, per the SOP and per some
agreements with DTO that have come out in the media-- between RTD and DTO, and potentially bringing
higher frequency to other lines, such as the B or the R, to make up for the shortcomings in other parts of
the system and the resources freed up by those shortcomings. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. At this time, I'll pause to note for the sake of
the record that we've been joined by Director Ruscha. Thank you. We have 14 directors present and one
absent.
At this time, we have no other speakers in person that have signed up to speak. Are there any in-person
speakers present who did not have the opportunity to sign up who would like to do so?

OK. Seeing none in the room, we'll now move to our virtual attendees who may like to speak. At this time,
I'll turn to Mr. Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, and ask, has anyone raised their
virtual hand? And if so, may you please call out their name to begin?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson. We have at this juncture roughly seven individuals who have raised
their hand online who wish to provide public comment. As is the practice of the Board, we typically defer
to elected officials to go first when it comes to public comment. And we are joined this evening by State
Senator Faith Winter.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Senator, please go ahead for three minutes.
FAITH WINTER: Hi, this is Senator Winter. However, my colleague and friend Lori Goldstein, who's the
head of Adams County 12, has to leave first. If we could call on her and then I'll go after, I'd much
appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That would be fine. Lori Goldstein, you are now recognized, if staff may please
unmute. And you will have three minutes. Please go ahead.
LORI GOLDSTEIN: Thank you. So I'm Lori Goldstein. I'm the President of the Adams 12 Board of
Education. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. And thank you for giving me priority here. I
have a family obligation.
I do have two asks of the RTD board. So one ask is that you keep the zero fare for students continuing.
And also, I have an ask to reinstate the 104 route.
The 104 route was a conduit for students who attend Northglenn High School. So the Northglenn High
School attendance area goes from the west side as far west as Sheridan, north of 104th, and then south
of 104th to Lowell.
And the kids that live along there, they do not get bus service from the district because the district has a
two-mile policy. This cuts out the neighborhoods of North Park and Wandering View, which are west of
Federal, because they're just inside the two-mile limit.
Too often if a parent can't get their child to school because they have to go to work, the child might just
decide not to go because it's too cold or too far or they don't have money. So if there's a zero fare for all
students, not just the ones on 104 route, that takes away that excuse for a lot of our students-- not just
Adams 12, but all students.
And if you were to reinstate the 104 route, that would certainly make things easier for students who are at
Northglenn High School. Because if it were offered, I guarantee there would be students who would rely
on it. So those are the two things I'm asking for tonight. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. At this time, I'll now turn to
Senator Winter. The floor is yours for three minutes, please.
FAITH WINTER: Thank you so much. And thank you to RTD and the Board in all the dedicated work you
do to provide public transit across our region. And thank you for providing public comment tonight.

I just wanted to join-- it is an incredibly important partnership that we had with RTD to implement free fare
for youth. And my understanding is that it already wasn't going to be implemented until September, and it
may be delayed.
And it is so critically important that we start the school year off right; that we start the school year off with
people setting their expectations, and their standards, and their routines to be able to use that incredibly
important free fare for youth in order to get to school. In delaying the implementation of the school
schedule and the school trips, we're going to miss out on a lot of kids being able to get to school, families
being used to using RTD for that incredibly important transportation.
And so when you're looking at your plan tonight, I'm asking you not to delay the implementation of the
school transit system and, if at all possible, to increase it. Because we know that creating these patterns
of use early in the school session when schools are starting in mid-August will set the tone for the year.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call the name of our next
speaker-- and if that speaker can begin once your name is called.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Thank you, Chair Davidson. Next, we are going to go to Alexis Marsh, who is an
Adams 12 School Board member.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Alexis Marsh, please go ahead and unmute yourself. And you'll have three minutes.
ALEXIS MARSH: Great. Thank you. And I, again, want to echo Senator Whitner-- [EXHALES]-- Senator
Whitt-- Winter-- wow, sorry, it's not even a Monday-- and my colleague, Board member Goldstein, in
thanking you for taking public comment tonight.
And I have to say my stepson, who is no longer an Adams 12 student but in college, uses the free fare.
So I really appreciate and I want you guys to know how much our youth really appreciate this program.
I would echo what both of them said, that I hope that the vote happens sooner rather than later. I'm a new
Board member. And one of the things I hear is, we have incredible CTE, career and technical education,
programs, but the problem is continually getting to it.
And I think. Adams 12 has better bus situations than other districts, but I know that we still struggle. And
there's a heavy reliance on public transportation, RTD. And I just want to make sure our kiddos can from
day one get to where they need to go for their education.
So again, I really appreciate your guys' work on this. And I hope you move up the vote. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the comment. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call our next
speaker.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Alejandro Castañeda.
ALEJANDRA CASTANEDA: Hello. Good afternoon. My name is Alejandro Castañeda. And I live in RTD's
District C. Thank you for taking public comment this evening. I'm a pedestrian dignity and sustainable
transportation advocate who lives in Denver.

My fellow co-organizers and I work to push elected officials and other power-holders to make decisions in
support of dignified mobility policies and infrastructure that promote the safe and independent mobility of
all people who walk, roll, and use public transportation.
I'm here to share my support for RTD to adopt a Vision Zero plan, since we know that public
transportation plays a crucial but undervalued role in keeping us all safe in our transportation network.
According to an analysis released by the American Public Transportation Association, metro areas can
cut the traffic fatality rates between 10% and 40% when they prioritize transit, bicycle, and pedestrian
infrastructure in combination with other strategies that reduce driving.
Cities with public transportation systems keep cars off the road by providing options to get around. This is
especially helpful for those considered high-risk drivers, including very new drivers, older drivers, and
impaired drivers. This translates to safer conditions for everyone who uses the road, even those who are
not riding public transit.
Also, as someone who invested a lot of time and energy advocating in front of our Denver City Council to
ensure Denver International Airport's master plan for Peña Boulevard included a transit option before
Council members approved $5 million in funding, I was deeply, deeply disappointed to read a recent
Denverite story by respected transportation and growth reporter Nate Minor.
In this story, Denver City Council member, namely Councilwoman Flor Alvidrez from District 7, told
Denverite that she felt lobbied by the RTD, interpreting a phone call before a crucial vote as the agency
saying it was not interested in upgrading the A Line. According to Denverite's story, RTD's intervention
flipped one of those councilors-- so Alvidrez's vote-- in a crucial vote.
And the Council approved the bill by one vote that helped fund the road only Pena Boulevard study. I
know because I was there at that Council meeting. It was such a disappointment. I've also heard from
transportation planners at the city and state level that RTD is not a collaborative partner in projects like
Bus Rapid Transit along Federal Boulevard.
We will not achieve our Vision Zero and climate action goals without RTD's full commitment to these
efforts by adopting a plan and proactively collaborating to ensure our public transportation system offers
world-class service. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for joining us. Mr. Kroll, if you could
please call the next speaker, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes Next, we have Molly McKinley.
MOLLY MCKINLEY: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Oh, wait. Is my-- OK. You can hear me. Thank you,
Chair Davidson. And good evening, RTD Directors, CEO and General Manager Johnson, and staff.
Thanks for holding space for this public comment this evening. My name is Molly McKinley. And I'm
speaking tonight on behalf of the Denver Streets Partnership.
First, I want to express our thanks to Director Ruscha, Harwick, and Lewis for convening the RTD Vision
Zero Coalition and express our support for the Board to adopt a resolution committing to Vision Zero,
although I understand you won't be voting on that until September.

We believe that incidents that result in serious injury or death on our transportation system are
preventable. And we believe that public transit is a key piece of making our entire transportation system
more safe. We look forward to celebrating the adoption of that resolution and working together to make
our region's transportation system more safe.
Next, I'd like to address the service changes that you'll be voting on tonight. I was surprised when I was
reviewing the Board packet for tonight's meeting last week ahead of the Executive Committee meeting
when I saw that it's now proposed, after the public comment period for these service changes was over,
that the E and H lines will only be returning to 30-minute frequency.
These lines were both running every 15 minutes until the major service disruptions went into effect in
May. The service reduction to 60-minute service was explained to the community as temporary. Failure to
restore frequency to the level of service before these disruptions is unacceptable and is a disservice to
riders who depend on these routes to access their daily destinations, including students and faculty at the
Auraria Campus, who were unaware about this proposal until I reached out to them last week.
Despite attempts to get answers from RTD about this in the past week, to no avail, I'm struggling to
understand what changed so drastically with the workforce availability between April 30 and today to
justify yet another significant service change without appropriate communication to riders.
I hope that this will be revisited, if not at the very least discussed publicly and communicated clearly to
riders, ideally with a commitment to make the changes necessary to secure the appropriate workforce to
deliver the service.
Finally, as an advocate for expanded public transit in the region who has repeatedly stood up and
advocated for RTD over the last close to five years, I just want to use the last of my time to respectfully
express my deep concern for the patterns of shortcomings, which have felt particularly acute in recent
months.
I'm disappointed in the lack of transparency and accountability on a number of fronts. And I'm frustrated
that riders and frontline workers are paying the price every day for failures deep within the organization.
I want RTD to be successful. And I'm optimistic that if RTD prioritizes transparency, communication, and
trust with riders, workers, and the community, it can get back on the right track.
Lastly, I just want to express our deep appreciation for RTD's frontline workers. I thank you all for your
time and all of the work that you do and welcome the opportunity to discuss any of these items further.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for being here. Mr. Kroll, if you could
please call our next speaker, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have Huong Dang.
HUONG DANG: Hi. My name is Huong Dang. I live in the Highland area. And I live right by Federal
Boulevard and 38th Avenue.
These corridors have bus rapid transit design plans in motion. I did rider outreach for supporting the
federal BRT project recently. And I was able to chat with many folks who use the 31 Federal bus daily.
From students to retirees, they have spoken positively of your restructured fare system.

However, the main big concern that still remain is the buses' unreliability. The buses often come late or,
worst case, not show up at all. In order to improve trust in RTD and increase ridership, we must address
RTD's unreliable operation. I would like to suggest reforming your workers' benefits to better retain and
attract operators.
You must ensure that there are people who are able to provide reliable service. Reforms such as lower
health care premiums, quicker timeline for raises, six-month retention bonuses, and other measures for
your operators will allow all Denverites to benefit from your services.
During our rider outreach, my fellow volunteer and I handed our bus operator a written note thanking her
for being our bus driver. She started crying and thanking us for recognizing her work. It is important to me
and many other Denverites that our bus operators are treated well so that they can continue to provide
their invaluable labor. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments and for being here. Mr. Kroll, if you could
please call our next speaker, please.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, we have State Senator Jeff Bridges.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Senator, please go ahead.
JEFF BRIDGES: Hi. Thanks so much for having me today. I just wanted to express my deep dismay that
you are delaying the decreased fares for young kids. I mean, we've got students starting school early
August.
And those fares aren't rolling out until late September, assuming everything goes to plan. My
understanding is that a lot of the support for that came from state dollars.
Speaking as a member of the Budget Committee, I'm extremely disappointed to hear that that fare will not
be something that those kids can take advantage of until well into the school year. I think that disrupts
families. That disrupts school service. That disrupts a lot. And that's not what we had in mind when we
sent that money your way.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Senator. While this Board typically does not respond to public
comment during this, because of the comment we have received, I do just want to clarify that the zero fair
is continuing. And we can address that more clearly at a later point.
Thank you very much for the comments on that. And Senator, thank you for joining us. At this time. I will
now ask for Mr. Kroll to please call our next speaker.
JACK KROLL: I apologize, but [INAUDIBLE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Paolo Solorzano, you are now recognized. Please, go ahead.
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Hi. This is Paolo Solorzano with the RTD Rider's Alliance. Yeah. I'd like to
express my-- my heart goes out to all the RTD operators out there during the last few months.

I have several as members of our group that are expressing more violence, being spat on or cussed out,
on a daily basis. I hope that RTD leadership is talking to operators about this and giving them plans about
what can-- what's going to happen so that they aren't being abused out there.
But other than that, thank you for letting me comment as usual. But unfortunately, I do have other things
I'm seeing out there that I'm trying to report here. I'm sorry I haven't emailed the Board or anything about
things I've commented on. I do work. I'm trying to get my life together.
But this is why the RTD Rider's Alliance was started. Experiencing years and years of delays,
cancellations, lack of notifications for cancellations-- it sets people back years. Career-wise, I've
experienced that myself.
And a lot of people are expressing those same life experiences in the media now. And I really hope that
RTD leadership and the Board are all reading all the articles that are coming out-- people missing medical
appointments.
So specifically right now, I just want to report that I've been calling in, talking to customer service about
and sending emails to RTD staff and leadership about on-time-- correct signage, correct signage. Right
now, it's more important than ever.
It doesn't need to be said why. But I'm finding things like the Broadway Station-- the physical signage out
there, the printed signage-- three of them, the large ones facing east-- the large ones, they were all
incorrect.
This was July 13. They were all displaying January 7 service change updates. It should have been May 7.
And again, it's a huge-- it's a main hub. That should have never happened. It took me multiple phone calls
and emails to finally get through to customer service.
I had to send pictures. It got changed out, but they're now only displaying black. There's nothing there as
far as I know. And for disability community, they need those so they don't have to cross the station-- I
mean, cross the tracks so that they don't-- just to check when the next train is coming-- things like that.
Also, really quickly, sorry-ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE]
PAOLO SOLORZANO: --elevators have bee-- OK. All right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm so sorry for the interruption. That is three minutes. Would you mind just briefly
wrapping your comments?
PAOLO SOLORZANO: Sure. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for that. Last thing-- yeah, as far as the
disability community is concerned, too, the elevators have been going down quite a bit on the H Line, R
Line-- sometimes daily.
Hopefully, I'm thinking that RTD can help out with that. Bus shuttles are being sent out, but the
notifications do not tell you where to catch them.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments.

PAOLO SOLORZANO: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We do need to wrap there and move on, but you certainly are welcome to submit
additional comments to us as well. Thank you. Mr. Kroll, if you could please call on the next speaker,
please.
JACK KROLL: Yes, we have [INAUDIBLE]

ERIK DAVIDSON: Nate Trela, you are now recognized and have three minutes to speak. Please, go
ahead.
NATE TRELA: OK. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah, I just wanted to follow up. I understand that the peer review
for the paratransit service system has been-- if it's not in your hands by today, it's supposed to be
tomorrow.
Even if you already do have it, I think it's-- given how packed this meeting is supposed to be-- and so
many important issues being discussed today-- it's definitely wise to take a little time to digest it before
any decisions are made, based on what is in that review.
I do want to implore the Board and the staff to release that review as quickly as possible publicly so we
can have a productive, informed discussion/dialogue with the community, with different stakeholders
about any changes that might come as a result of that review.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for your comments. And thank you for being here. Mr. Kroll, are
there any additional hands raised?
JACK KROLL: There are not.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Mr. Kroll, can you please read into the record any emailed comments that were
received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes. You all received three email comments for today's meeting. One was a letter from
Greater Denver Transit, in which they spoke on a number of issues related to the July Board meeting.
Next, we had a letter in support of Vision Zero, which came from a host of nonprofits in the area, including
Denver Streets Partnership, Denver Bicycle Lobby, CCDC, Greater Denver Transit, and Pedestrian
Dignity. Finally, you had a letter from an individual, Jake Cohen, that spoke to RTD's position on-- or
information on the A Line study.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for reading that into the record. With no other participants in the
queue, we will now close public participation period at this time.
And again, I'd just like to clarify-- and thank you, everybody, for the comments, as always. While we
typically do not comment at this time, I do just want to call everyone's attention that this evening, on the
unanimous consent agenda, Item B does contain the continuation of Zero Fare for Youth.
Thank you, everybody who has taken the time to be with us here and share your thoughts with us-- as
always, very much appreciated.

We will now move to the external entities reports on our agenda. There are two external entities reports
this evening.
I'd also like to note for the sake of the record that we are joined by Director Buzek, I see at this time,
virtually. That is 15 directors present. Thank you. Our first external entities report is from the Citizens
Advisory Committee, or CAC. Mr. John Fussa, may you please present your report.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you, Chair Davidson and Board members. I'm here providing a brief update on
behalf of the Citizens Advisory Committee. Our activities over the last month or so-- we met in July on
July 11 and had a full agenda, as we've had all year.
So I do want to acknowledge, we've been busy. We've been busy with the support of the Board. So I want
to thank the Board collectively and individually for your support of the CAC as well as RTD staff, including
and especially Jack Kroll.
The highlights of our July agenda and meeting are that we had an update and presentation from Assistant
General Manager Dave Jensen on the issues arising from the enhanced inspection regime for the light
rail system on the south side of the RTD network and the resultant slow zones that have been imposed,
service disruptions, and repairs. And it was an informational update.
I think the CAC, continuing to support RTD, expressed concern over communication and, frankly,
recommends to RTD, both the Board and staff, that as this issue rolls through the rail system, especially
the light rail network, it is paramount that RTD communicate these service disruptions and impacts so that
patrons and riders can make travel choices. We are concerned that it will depress ridership not just in the
short term but in the long term.
And we also have some concern that this issue-- which is a major issue for RTD and the Board, so we
don't need to repeat that-- will have some effect on the November ballot question for the TABOR referred
measure. We hope that that is not the case.
We think that [INAUDIBLE] and the TABOR ballot measure is critical to RTD's future fiscal and financial
sustainability. And we just encourage RTD, the Board and staff, to continue to communicate and provide
all necessary information about service disruptions to ridership so that it-- number one, the patrons are
not inconvenienced more than they already have been and need to be, and so there's no negative impact
on the November referred ballot measure.
We also had an update from Deputy Chief of Police Glyn Horn on system safety. This has been kind of a
long-standing request to the CAC.
So we were very pleased that the Deputy Chief was able to spend some time with us and discuss with the
CAC system safety, ridership safety, and what the organization and the police team is doing to make sure
that riders are safe-- the system is safe both for rider attraction and for the customer and rider experience.
And so the CAC expressed its support for the police initiatives, including but not limited to the planned
expansion of the RTD police force away from kind of the security contractors and having more RTD police
on the ground and in the system.
The Board-- I'm sorry, not "the Board." You're "the Board." We're the CAC. Pardon me. CAC continues to
express its support for the TABOR referred ballot measure-- talked about ways that the CAC as kind of a

representative organization of riders and stakeholders in the district can come out in support of that
referred ballot measure after the summer is over and we enter the election season and support that.
We'll continue to work with RTD staff on that to be positive and to help get the word out about the
importance of that ballot measure. If the RTD Board has any input on how the CAC can be helpful and
supportive on that referred ballot measure on TABOR in November, we certainly would like to hear that.
That is a priority for the CAC, to be supportive of that measure.
Lastly, as some of the Board may know or all the Board may know, we have a number of openings on the
CAC. And as we've been-- the past year I would characterize as transitional. We've updated the CAC
Charter with RTD support and Board support. So thank you.
So we feel good as CAC members and I feel good as a CAC co-chair that we've made a turn. We have a
work plan for this year. We have support from the Board and staff, but we do need to fill some open
seats, which are growing as we go through the year.
In fact, a longtime CAC member, Jim Palmento, from the northwest corner of the district will be leaving
the CAC to pursue other activities. And we want to thank Jim for his role on the CAC and his support of
the CAC and RTD over the past few years.
We would like RTD Board support for filling those open positions through the solicitation, recruitment, and
appointment process. And that'll be a big topic for the CAC at our next meeting, which will be in
September.
Again, if the Board has any input and guidance, we are open to that. We would like to hear that through
staff, through Jack-- Jack Kroll, that is. It's important that we repopulate these open positions so we can
be effective and continue in our role to provide public input through that perspective and be supportive of
RTD activities.
And I think with that, I want to thank the Board for allowing me this update. We will not have an August
meeting. We will resume our meetings and activities in September. Have a terrific rest of your summer.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Fussa, for your report and for joining us here. We have a
second report this evening. This is from our Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee. And Miss
Julie Jennings has joined us. You may please present your update.
[PHONE RINGING]
JULIE JENNINGS: Oh. Excuse me. Sorry.
[BEEP]

Just a moment.
[BEEP]

Good evening. I'm Julie Jennings with a summary of the July 9 joint APAC and ACPD meetings. APAC-the QRyde customer portal is still undergoing third-party accessibility testing. Once this is completed,
APAC members have volunteered to help test.
Peer review results are pending and anticipated to be shared during the September APAC meeting.
[INAUDIBLE] Acting Manager was introduced following the retirement of Larry Buter. Questions submitted
for a speaker at the next meeting include the route review process and how gaps in the ADA service
area, known as donut holes, are addressed.
Plans were shared for ACPD and APAC members to review the recent renovations to the 16th Street
Mall. That was on July 15. And information was provided about the 60 Years of Civil Rights event that
occurred on July 20. RTD staff presented the updated process for communicating service changes to
customers. Members were encouraged to provide feedback.
The Deputy Chief of Police provided information about the expansion of the police force. Changes to the
program that allow elevators to remain open to reduce illegal activity was reviewed. A concern about
Wadsworth Station was addressed. It was reiterated that RTD police are working with local police to
monitor and resolve incidents in that area. And that concludes my summary.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Miss Jennings, for your report, and for being here, and for your
work. Next, we'll move on to our committee reports, starting with our Audit Committee. Committee Chair
Dishell, do you have anything you would like to report this evening?
BOBBY DISHELL: The Audit Committee met-- yeah, we did earlier this month. I was not at the June
meeting. The Audit Committee met earlier this month reviewing the internal audit update as well as the
financial audit. And I believe you will see that on your unanimous consent agenda. Otherwise, nothing
further to report. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair. Next, our Finance and Planning Committee
report. Committee Chair Tisdale, the floor is yours if you would like to provide a report.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Finance and Planning Committee met one
week ago on July 23. The minutes of that meeting are found at pages 22 through 25 of the Board packet
for tonight's evening.
Those minutes addressed four items that are found on our consent agenda this evening. And there were
three discussion items, as described in the minutes. Our next meeting will be held on September 10-September 10-- for Finance and Planning Committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That concludes my
report.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair. Next, our Operations Safety and Security Committee
report. Committee Chair Whitmore, the floor is yours if you would like to provide a report.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, the OSNS Committee met last week on Wednesday the
24th. We have two items that are on the agenda that were supported by the Committee-- tonight's
agenda, I should say-- service changes for September of this year.
And then the Title VI Service Equity Analysis was presented and is on the unanimous consent agenda for
the entire Board. We had two discussion items, great presentations on our language access plan
expansion and our human resources update.

Our next meeting will be September 11. And depending on the action taken later tonight, there may or
may not be the Vision Zero item on our agenda. It'll probably be on one or the other.
So we'll see where that goes, but that's certainly in the forefront of our planning minds here as we move
into our fall meetings. With that, I'll yield the floor. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Whitmore. Next, we'll move to our
Performance Committee report. Committee Chair Catlin, do you have anything you would like to report
this evening?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, briefly. We've been working with Executive Manager Jack Kroll and Chief People
Officer Charlene Polege to get started on two items with RKLR consultants that were hired to do the
compensation analysis as well as the 360 review. We're working on that and look forward to giving you an
update at the next scheduled meeting, which will be on August 8.
I know we're not supposed to have August meetings, but we wanted to make sure that we kept up with
our schedule to complete those two critical activities before year's end. So I would encourage any of you
who would like to participate to join us on August 8 for that particular meeting.
We also continue to work-- Vice Chair Guissinger and I are working to try and establish some metrics-- or
KPIs, as we've been calling them-- that the Board might like to see. We have a couple of really good
examples from other transit agencies across the country that we would like to glean from.
And then we committed to GM-CEO Johnson that we would provide her with a list of items that she may
already be reporting to the transit database but also that the Board would like to see as it looks at agency
performance throughout the year.
So I would encourage any of you to let either Vice Chair Guissinger or I know if there are any particular
measures that you would like to see reported on either a monthly, a quarterly, or an annual basis. With
that, Mr. Chair, I conclude my report. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. I've been informed we do have a minor
technical challenge with our agenda software here that I'd like to look at.
I'm going to ask, unless there's any objection, that we take a five-minute break. So folks can use the
restroom, take a break. Please come back and be seated here at 6:31 PM Mountain Daylight Time, and
we will resume. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

So one-minute warning-- if everyone could find their seats, please.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

All right. If everyone could find your seat, please.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

All right, everyone. Take your seat, please.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

All right. We will reconvene.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

[INAUDIBLE]

All right. We're going to resume the meeting. I'll thank you for-- all right. Thank you very much. This is Erik
Davidson speaking.
We are resuming the meeting after resolving our issue. Thank you for the patience. It is now 6:32 PM
Mountain Daylight Time. At this time, we will move on to the approval of the Board meeting minutes and
committee reports.
The Board and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from
directors for the minutes to be approved this evening?
OK. Seeing none, unless there is an objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may I
please have a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings-- June 24, 2024, Special Board
Meeting; June 25, 2024, Special Board Meeting; June 25, 2024, Board Meeting; July 1, 2024,
Performance Committee; July 11, 2024, Audit Committee; July 22, 2024, Performance Committee; July
23, 2024, Finance and Planning Committee; July 24, 2024, Operations Safety and Security Committee;
July 25, 2024, Executive Committee?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Tisdale as the movement, Broom as the second. Is there any discussion?
Seeing none, are there any no votes on the action?
OK. That will pass unanimously. Thank you. At this time, we will now move to the Chair's Report, followed
by the General Manager's Report.
Since we last met, I have a few updates to provide and some general comments and thoughts. I have
continued to engage and communicate with the leaders of the region about RTD's recent activities and
forthcoming activities, including participating in meetings and events such as the Northwest Mayors &
Commissioners Meeting, which I attended with Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
I would like to just state for the record that RTD is committed to engaging with the region's leaders, and
the public, and our partners at the state and legislature on enhancing transit in Colorado.
Thank you to our General Manager and CEO Johnson and many of my colleagues here today, as one
example, for participating in the transit Tuesday meetings that were arranged by members of the
Transportation Legislation Review Committee, or TLRC. I look forward to engaging with our state
partners. And I am excited to work with our General Manager and CEO to provide RTD's formal
presentation to the TLRC this September.
On July 16, I had the opportunity and the privilege to participate in and speak at an event hosted by RTD
to celebrate 50 million customers riding the A Line. General Manager-CEO Johnson, and myself, and
many others had a chance to celebrate this opportunity.
It was our pleasure to celebrate our customers for their dedication to transit in riding that line and to
celebrate all the tremendous hard work that went into building a popular service line that has run 24.3
million miles in its lifetime, which is 51 trips to the Moon and back.
I would like to thank the entire RTD time at this moment with a special focus on our Maintenance of Way
team as well as our operators out in the field for demonstrating tremendous resilience and perseverance
dealing with the issues and slow orders caused by our increased preventative maintenance standards.
Your resilience, your perseverance night after night, for those of you working on the line, and the
perseverance, for those that are providing service to our customers, are noticed. It is appreciated. And we
tremendously thank you. I think I speak on behalf of all of the agency.
I know I speak on behalf of all of the agency when I thank our riders and our customers for their resilience
as well, their patience and their dedication to leveraging transit to where they need to go. Again, we see
you. We appreciate you, especially during difficult and challenging times through which we persevere.
I will now at this time hand off the floor to our General Manager and CEO Johnson for her report. But I will
end my report in the hand-off by congratulating our General Manager and CEO Johnson for being
honored by the Denver Business Journal as an outstanding woman in business. We certainly hope that
you enjoy the event that is coming this Thursday to honor your great leadership in the region. Thank you,
General Manager. And yes-[APPLAUSE]

Thank you, General Manager and CEO. And with that, I will hand off the floor to you for your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. As introduced, Debra Johnson, General Manager
and CEO. First and foremost, thank you so much for those comments.
As you collectively, with the Board involved, acknowledge the hard work of our frontline employees,
oftentimes that recognition is fleeting. So I greatly appreciate it on behalf of all the people that comprise
this dynamic agency.
So with that, I will share with you a few highlights of activities that relate to the agency's four strategic
priorities and our three initiatives that I have engaged since the monthly Board meeting that last took
place on Tuesday, June 25.
I will also be presenting an update on activities related to phase one of the near-term Rail Reconstruction
Project, as well as the Coping Panels Project, and light rail preventative maintenance, and slow zones
related.
So moving on in relationship to our strategic priority of community value, on Monday, July 8, I was
interviewed by the Chief Capital Service Officer from Utah Transit Authority, acting in his capacity as a
cohort leader for the 2024 Class of Leadership APTA, being the American Public Transportation
Association.
The interview pertained to industry best practices related to personal security on transit. As many of you
know, we are not alone in this, recognizing the operative word in what we do is "public." And we have an
environment that basically welcomes all people.
And with that, we experience a myriad of different things that happen in public rights away. And so
recognizing that, the cohort is focused on that topic as their capstone project.
And for everybody's edification, Leadership APTA is a program for developing and supporting senior and
executive leaders to become exceptional leaders and visionaries for APTA and the transit industry as a
whole. Participants define a new vision and future for the industry and develop leadership attributes
needed to navigate our ever-changing operational and financial paradigms.
COMTO's 54th National Meeting and Training Conference was held in Houston, Texas, from July 9
through July 12. Just for everybody's edification, COMTO is the Conference of Minority Transportation
Officials.
This dynamic organization has been in existence since the early '70s and was founded on the campus of
Howard University, a historical Black college and university, recognizing that when the capital city, being
DC, was being built out, there was a lot of different individuals converging on the district. And there was
not a lot of representation for transportation officials that would qualify [AUDIO OUT]
So COMTO's annual conference brings together industry leaders across all modes of transportation for
four days of learning, training, and networking. We've had the opportunity to have other people within the
organization lean in and be part of COMTO.
We have our own Deputy Police Chief Glyn Horn that had the opportunity to participate on a panel with
Acting Administrator Veronica Vanderpool. Carl Green Jr. was involved as well as Eugene Acosta, who

works in light rail. And so it was a great opportunity for individuals within the organization to expand their
kitchen cabinets as it relates to transit.
The annual conference is open to transportation professionals at all career levels-- government
employees, manufacturers, suppliers, and other interested participants. The public sector CEO summit is
held annually during the course of the conference.
During this event, I was humbled to be selected unanimously to facilitate a peer exchange discussion
among CEOs for the second year in a row. This discussion is intended to be an open, frank dialogue.
And the conversation focused around specific topics, including self-care and psychological safety for
CEOs, ongoing people power challenges, policy decisions and impacts on equity, current operating
environment and related challenges, and the intersection between future mobility and technology.
Among those participating were chief executives representing several public transit agencies, airports,
tolling authorities. And we also had the Secretary of Transportation for the state of California and
departments of transportation from across the country in this forum.
On a personal note, during the conference, it was announced that I have been elected to serve on the
COMTO International Board of Directors, commencing this year, continuing through 2026.
On Thursday, July 11, and Friday, July 12, I participated in the Transportation and Climate Symposium
hosted by the US Department of Transportation. The keynote was Deputy Secretary of Transportation
Polly Trottenberg.
And the impetus behind this was to bring together different facets of elements that needed to be
discussed relative to climate solutions and innovations toward transportation decarbonization,
transformation accessible communities, and mobility freedom for all.
It was quite a cross-section of individuals leaning into various discussions and celebrating what has
happened with the Biden-Harris administration relative to the whole aspect of transportation and climate.
On Monday, July 22, I attended Denver Mayor Mike Johnston's inaugural State of the City address.
Mayor Johnston was joined by Denver City Council members, local elected officials, and city leaders,
among others. I know I did have an opportunity to see Director Rosenthal in the audience.
I'm not certain who else was in attendance-- so no intention to slight, but just recognizing that there are
many different people that were assembled. The event celebrated Denver's achievements over the last
year, and highlighted the city challenges and opportunities, and outlined priorities for the year to come.
On Wednesday, July 24, I, along with Deputy Chief Steve Martingano, had the privilege of meeting with
Tim Keller, the Mayor of the city of Albuquerque, and Harold Medina, the city's Chief of Police, and other
members of a delegation of Albuquerque city officials that had met with the city and county of Denver and
who were visiting specifically to engage in broad-ranging discussions regarding RTD operations and
transit system best practices.
Related to community value and in relation to the strategic initiative of Back to Basics, on July 23, an
email was sent to 3,588 Access-on-Demand customers providing an update about the peer review and
next steps.

The email was also posted on RTD's webage. And we heard that from some of our public commenters as
well as from Sally Jennings, representing the Committee on Disabilities. And customers were invited to
share feedback and questions once again.
The email was opened by 2,050 other recipients, or approximately 61%. And I'm calling out those
analytics intentionally as we're trying to be purposeful in reference to communicating out. So we know
that was successfully transmitted. And with that 61%, an additional 127 individuals visited RTD's website
to learn more information.
Just as a gentle reminder, after peer reviews are conducted by subject matter experts who volunteer their
time to assist agencies-- and as I shared previously with the Board via memorandum, it was initially
anticipated that RTD would receive the panel's final report no later than June 28. However, due to a
personal unforeseen emergency with one of the volunteer reviewers, the timeline had to be adjusted.
So I just want to ensure that people are aware of that. Because as we look at our colleagues across the
country that volunteer their time, it's important to recognize that they have their own jobs.
And they're doing this-- and I want to give a shout out to our own Dave Jensen, who's on the screen
virtually this evening. He just participated in a peer review last week for the Toronto Transit Commission.
And interestingly enough, the scope of TTC was looking at service disruptions.
And as AGM Jensen shared with me, they actually put forward 28 or so speed orders when he was there
last Monday. So TTC, being in Northern America, is one of the largest transit agencies and also the most
heavily used urban mass transit system in Canada.
So that's just some context. We're not alone in this. I don't take that lightly. But as our system ages, we
are going to start shifting how we do business relative to our service delivery models.
Related to customer excellence and employee ownership regarding our live look-in-- you may have seen
some communique around this-- but RTD recently announced that the live look-in functionality is now
available on all of the agency's buses that are in revenue service.
The live look-in functionality supersedes a system used for decades, under which public safety
dispatchers could only hear audio inside of the bus. The new system was paid for by approximately $2.4
million, in which we received from a US Department of Homeland Security grant. The agency was
awarded this back in September of 2020, which also included professional services and five years of
maintenance.
And with the addition of the look-in system, dispatchers can now use a secure cellular network connection
to hear audio and video in real time from the cameras on board the bus. And this new approach helps bus
dispatch and our transit police better understand reported situations, including how to assist employees
and the public in a timely manner.
As I shift regarding employee ownership, RTD's Impact Team deployments continue throughout the
summer months. As the Board will recall, as part of the six-month pilot outreach program, Impact Team
members are agency employee ambassadors who have volunteered their time. The nearly 40
participating employees have now served for approximately 180 hours and have assisted over 2,500
customers, utilizing the system.

By being present and available at stops and in stations, the Impact Team can immediately answer
questions, alleviate concerns, provide directions to activity centers, and gather feedback, and improve
RTD services, and ensure needs are satisfactorily met. We recognize that we have opportunities there.
And so we're leaning into the moment.
And I just have to commend the team. I have seen and heard personally great stories connecting with
customers, understanding their pain points-- and on the flip side of it, great appreciation.
I had an opportunity last night to be on the train. And I had to take a bus bridge myself. And I was
standing room only on a bus. And this one customer actually said to me, well, it happens-- and I was
explaining to him the residual impacts of the copper wire thefts. And he was like, wow.
And he was talking about-- he worked in a different industry-- and the impacts there. Because I believe he
was in aviation. But long story short, he said, you know what, we're on this bus, and a bus isn't a bad
thing. He was like, this beats driving.
So the more we get out, we can understand people's stories. Because we all have them. And oftentimes,
it just puts things in perspective. And so I will segue now to my brief presentation-- I see it up on the
screen, so I'll get going with that-- and then round out my comments, and yield the floor back to you, Mr.
Chair.
So during this brief presentation, I will present updates, as I outlined earlier, about the Downtown Rail
Reconstruction Project, Coping Panels Project, and speed restrictions. The Coping Panel Project, as
everybody should be aware, is along the I-25 corridor.
And then the speed restrictions, as we know as we look at our preventative maintenance-- those have
come into play due to the fact that we are trying to ensure our network is in a state of good repair.
So first, I will touch upon the Rail Reconstruction Project. And I'm pleased to report that the work on the
intersection of Broadway Welton Street 19th Street was completed at the beginning of January. Work has
now commenced on the intersections at 15th & California and 15th & Stout, which started two weeks ago
on the 15th of July.
Crews anticipate their efforts will continue in these areas for approximately an additional week, after
which the work will shift to 17th Street. And outreach to businesses and residents in the vicinity of these
intersections will continue as the work progresses.
Quickly on the Coping Panels Project-- you may recall that this commenced last year in April of 2023. The
one thing that's interesting-- we live in an area that has four seasons.
So as we talk about the work that we're doing, I know it's been a hardship on our employees navigating
this and dealing with individuals that have less than a sunny disposition because they have been
impacted.
But unlike other areas, we have a small window in which we can do work. So it seems as if this summer
has been the perfect storm, where everything just sort of cascaded, for lack of a better phrase.
But with this project in and of itself-- just to remind everyone, the focus of the project is to repair the caps
on the retaining walls adjacent to the tracks along I-25. It's critically important when you think about our
tracks abutting an interstate.

And these retaining walls are critical in reference to maintaining an environment where you can have
vehicular traffic traversing an interstate and then have an operational light rail line. The project is requiring
trains to operate along a single-track segment in areas where crews are present on the other track.
So this is no different from vehicular traffic being on a street whereby there's road work happening and
people are yielding when you have a flag person out there directing traffic in one direction and then in the
opposing direction. So that's exactly what's happening along this segment, which has caused residual
impacts throughout the network.
Completing this project during warm weather months and during daylight hours significantly reduces the
duration of the project because it's a small window in which we have, recognizing the importance of
having a safe operation out there, especially when you have manual operations and people flagging
trains through.
The conclusion of this project is anticipated to align with the implementation of the September service
changes. Hence, that's why we shifted, trying to provide greater flexibility from the September 15 to the
29th so we could have schedule adherence. And I am pleased to state that, with this project in its final
phase, it's currently two weeks ahead of schedule.
So transitioning quickly to the speed restrictions that we keep talking about, I wanted to just have this
graphical depiction here that showcases the floor so-- ugh, if I can speak. Four slow zones remain in
effect for light rail [INAUDIBLE] along the corridor segments that are depicted on the map that you see to
our right. And these slow zones are causing nominal delays for customers.
And I know-- I don't like using terms like "nominal," but it depends. It's, like, one minute or two. But there
could be more when you think about the network as a whole in relationship to what I just said about the
Coping Panel Projects. Because we're talking about the D, H, and R lines. And so we know that there is a
certain quadrant of our service area that's being heavily impacted.
I cannot stress enough that these corridors remain safe for RTD operations. I'll say it once again-- that it's
safe for RTD operations. And if any time these tracks were deemed unsafe, I'd be the first to basically
say, let's halt service. And I would beg for forgiveness later for not communicating that out to you all.
So as we move to the next slide-- OK. Oops. Let me go back. Seen here are the individual segments for
which speed restrictions remain in place. And the speed restrictions are being lifted as repairs are
completed. And approximately half of the initial restrictions have been removed thus far.
Progress updates are regularly shared with the public and posted to the agency's website, generally on
Fridays, if not more frequently. Because what we have been doing-- if there's something that happens on
the previous night and it's not Friday, we want to get that information out to the public to be fully
transparent. And we are providing maps, links for customer support, and additional transit options and
informational materials.
So as I conclude my report, I too want to share, on behalf of many grateful colleagues and RTD
customers, I'm [INAUDIBLE] tonight to extend a sincere, genuine thank you to every employee supporting
what has been a particularly demanding summer as it relates to light rail repairs.
The agency began the season with plans to complete the reconstruction project downtown, which, as you
know, is the oldest light rail alignment, as well as continue to repair the retaining wall caps.

Amid these projects, enhanced inspections on light rail have led to the implementation of speed
restrictions until necessary repairs or preventative maintenance work is completed. This combined reality
has been hard on customers and on many of the agency employees and all of you sitting around this
horseshoe.
I see and I acknowledge all that they are doing. And I want all employees to know that progress is being
made. Rail construction is ahead of schedule, as I stated. Slow down zones are being lifted across the
agency, from rail operations and Maintenance of Way, to Capital Programs, to bus operations,
communications, and engagement. Entire groups are delivering service to the best of their ability and
keeping the public apprised of changes.
I think all those engaged in these efforts for rising to the occasion as RTD invest in a state of good repair.
Their contributions are making a discernible difference to the life and health of the region. And their
dedication is inspiring. And it's my privilege to be a member of this dynamic team.
With that, Mr. Chair, I will conclude my report. Thank you very kindly for this extra time. And I yield the
floor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, General Manager and CEO. And thank you for your
commitment to continuing these reports throughout all of the maintenance that continues. We appreciate
the additional presentations as part of your regular report. And thank you for the sentiments shared
regarding our team and our community. May we all be resilient and emerge stronger.
We'll next move to our unanimous consent agenda item. There are six items on the unanimous consent
agenda listed under Section 15. These are actions A through F.
If anyone has a change to, discussion on, or questions about these items, please feel free to advise me at
this time. And I, of course, will be happy to pull this off the unanimous consent. I do see Director Ruscha's
hand raised.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Can we pull Item F, the September 2024 Title VI Service
Equity Analysis, off consent, please?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you. We will pull-JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: --Item F off the unanimous consent. Are there any further requests? Seeing none, may
I have a mo-DOUG TISDALE: [INAUDIBLE] the unanimous consent agenda.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Tisdale is the movement. A second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I see Whitmore as the second. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none,
the unanimous consent agenda will pass. That is items A through E.

There will now be four recommended actions on the agenda. These are going to be actions F, G, H, and
I, as listed in the packet. We will start with Item F, which was just pulled from the unanimous consent
agenda.
This is the September 2024 Title VI Service Equity Analysis. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the
Title VI Service Equity Analysis report for the September 2024 service changes to comply with federal
laws, regulations, and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Do I have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved-- Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Bouquet is the movement. The second is Whitmore. I'll now open up for
discussion. Any questions to inform the vote?-- Starting with Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I have two questions. May I go ahead and ask away?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So the first question is, I'm just wondering if staff could explain, like,
what additional outreach was done in between the original proposal and the revised proposal that came
before us between-- at OSS so that our constituents may reach out to directors with any additional-- or
any concerns, if they had them? If someone could explain just how that works, that would be appreciated- from a process.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager-CEO, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. Director Ruscha, for clarification, this came before OSS last
week. Are you talking about what has transpired since last week? Or are you talking about originally when
we broached this?
OK. With that, I will ask Carl Green Jr., the Director of Civil Rights, to step up to the table and outline the
outreach that has taken place. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Carl Green Jr., thank you for joining us. The floor is yours, please.
CARL GREEN: Good evening, Director Ruscha. My name is Carl Green Jr., Director of the Civil Rights
Division. So as outlined in the Board Committee meeting, there was a robust community outreach led by
the Communications and Engagement Department by Stuart Summers.
So that was explained during that meeting. But the additional efforts with respect to the Service Equity
Analysis-- we took a concerted effort to go above and beyond to specifically do outreach with respect to
the Route 40, which is the only route that is classified as a major service change.
So we connected with community partners to do outreach to a number of key activity centers. We had a
outreach event at the Village Exchange Center. And most of the outreach was carried out through those
mechanisms. So beyond the formal public comment period, there was no additional outreach beyond that
time frame.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Just a-- I think I understand the-- I think I know the answer. But just to
make sure-- so because we only had one route that was flagged for additional review and there were no
amendments to the original proposal, then any other route that might have had an amendment or might
have changed would not have gone through, I guess, your department's process? Is that-- did I
understand that correctly?
CARL GREEN: Chair Davidson, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Go ahead.
CARL GREEN: Yeah. Just to take a step back as far as how outreach or engagement is conducted as far
as the service changes, it's sort of a parallel track, where Communications Engagement will do the broad
brush outreach and engagement with respect to all proposed service changes.
And as far as the Title VI Service Equity Analysis, we partner up with Communications Engagement, but
we're only centered on specifically for the major service changes as it relates to the FTA Title VI Circular,
where, by those requirements, we are essentially focused on the Route 40 or any major service change.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And may I ask one more?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So-- and again, I think I know the answer to this one. But just to make
sure that we're all clear-- so when we have seasonal adjustments-- and school tripper service came up
during OSS and in comment-- is that something that we also run through, like, our Title VI lens? And if so,
could you explain how that does work or would not apply?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may-- just a point of clarification-ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --that RTD does not operate school trippers. That's in violation of the Federal Transit
Administration and the regulations as specified.
We do have tripper service, whereby we place out additional buses to accommodate loads. And that
would be no different as we deploy services for activities.
And I just want to be clear as we go forward that we have an understanding. Because we are not in
violation of the FTA because we cannot provide school bus service. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the clarification. Mr. Green, anything to add?
CARL GREEN: Yeah, the only additional point that I would highlight is what constitutes a major service
change, which is that 25% reduction or increase of revenue hours or service hours for a particular route
or line.
So if it does not meet that threshold as set forth by RTD's Title VI program, which was adopted by the
Board in 2022, we would not assess the impacts for trippers.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Ruscha, any follow-up?
CARL GREEN: No, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you very much for joining us, Mr. Carl Green Jr. Appreciate it. We
will now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? All right. Seeing none, that will pass
unanimously with 15 yes votes, zero no, zero absent.
We will next move to our next recommended action. This is Item G for the September 2024 Service
Change. This is for the Board of Directors to approve the September 2024 Service Change as revised
and summarized in Attachment A and to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators impacted by the service changes. Do
we have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dishell is the movement, the second as Bouquet. At this time, I will now open up for
any discussion and questions on the matter to inform the vote, starting with Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. There's some really good things in the run board and whether it's
shoring up a line to be on time or adding service. I think we can springboard off these efforts to change
the narrative about RTD.
However, I have two concerns and one suggestion to share. First, the run board does not align with the
start of the school year. I remember, as a student, we used to start school after Labor Day. Now our kids
are starting the second week in August.
And whether we call it a day tripper for school or not, the fact remains a lot of our kids in the metro area
depend on RTD to get to school. We need to align the run board to be able to adapt to the beginning and
the end of the school year.
Secondly, in September, we should be celebrating the completion of our construction projects through
these projects that were justified-- construction projects that were justified. But they placed a lot of stress
on our riders to get through the summer. Let's welcome them back with a big bang. Whatever celebratory
package our staff can put together would be appreciated.
I do have concerns over the south line, however, being restored to only 30 minutes. Let's do everything
we can to bring it back to 15-minute frequency. We need to change the narrative again. Challenge staff to
make this happen.
And thirdly, as I have mentioned before, we need two access points to Union Station from midtown. The
MetroRide, which I took tonight because of the construction projects downtown, is essential to handle
thousands that will be returning to the 16th Street Mall area.
Whether it is a workforce or whether it is tourism, people need an option to get to the Union Station
quickly. Or they can take the current free mall shuttle to enjoy the new and improved 16th Street Mall.

We need to get out of the habit of providing a service and then pulling it back. This destroys riders'
confidence in the RTD. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your comments, Director Lewis. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I will preface my question by stating, I do think directors are aware
we don't run yellow school bus service. But whether we call it "school tripper" or "seasonal adjustments to
meet school service levels," which is in our packet, we do make adjustments for the school year.
And if I look at our packet, I see routes 11, 20, 24, 30, 51, 65, 73, 204, 206, 225, BOLT, DASH, JUMP,
NB, and SKIP, Broadway, all have seasonal adjustments for students, which is appropriate because we
expect increased service.
And also, just as-- so as a parent-- and I mentioned this in OSS-- like, we lived and died by the bus and
by that school tripper. Because that could mean an additional 20 minutes on your route. It could mean
you didn't catch the bus, the bus was full. And that could go on for two to three weeks before we
implemented our new schedule.
And I also noted that most of our area school districts start in the middle of August. And so with the delay
moving to September 29, the question remained is, what about those seasonal adjustments?
I've tried to get some clarification from staff as to when those changes will take place for those
schools/students-- that segment of our consumer population-- and then how those decisions will be
made. Like, if it's piecemeal, who makes the decision as to who gets that service first?
And so that was a long-winded question, but I wanted to provide some context. And anything staff can do
to fill in the blanks would really help us tonight. We had some public comment earlier.
And there might have been some conflation about free fare for youth and school service. But I think the
concern still remains, are we serving our youth, and are we doing this equitably? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. General Manager-CEO Johnson, did you want to respond?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Director Ruscha. And thank you, Director Lewis, as well for
your questions-- or comments, I should say.
So a couple of things-- as it relates to RTD serving 40 municipalities in eight counties-- within all of that,
there's different school start dates, right? And so as we look at this, this is something that we do in
conjunction with working with our union, whereby we get agreement if in fact we're providing seasonal
adjustments as we go forward.
I will have service planning staff-- i.e., Jessie Carter and/or-- well, here comes Fred Worthen-- to address
more specifically what we're doing. But this has been par for the course as we've gone forward. Because
each time-- as we plan on an annual basis for what we're doing three times a year to give our frontline
colleagues an opportunity to bid on work, in some of those instances, we don't know when the school
year is going to commence.
And so that's where we have the flexibility and agility as we go forward. Because that's extremely
important. And the shifting of the 29th-- as I stated in my comments during my oral report, that was done
intentionally with the understanding that our projects would be completed.

And then one other element before I yield the floor to my colleagues directly across from me is to state,
with Zero Fare for Youth, as we have communicated out-- and there will be a press release disseminated
later this evening that this was done to create a seamless transition.
This organization did receive a exemption from the Federal Transit Administration as it related to our pilot
program. We were able to do it for an entire year and not six months. And so with that ending on August
30, we would transition-- if in fact it's this Board's decision to approve Zero Fare for Youth, that that would
kick in automatically on September 1.
So there would be no impact relative to those individuals that have been using this since September 1 of
2023. So with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. Worthen to address the question more specifically about the
seasonal adjustments relative to trippers and commencement of academic school years. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: AGM Fred Worthen, thanks for joining-- please go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. As previously discussed at the Operations
Committee meeting, our CBA clearly defines dates for when service changes take effect. We have the
latitude to change a service date plus or minus two weeks one way or another.
What we're facing right now is not uncommon and isn't something that hasn't happened in the past. There
are many, many, many times where we have adjusted the service change start date outside of that
window itself, for varying reasons itself.
But when it comes to the overloads, we still have the ability-- and what we do is we build what's called a
special order. I have a team underneath of our contracted services.
And what they will do is, we'll provide overload services. They will schedule that. And then every day,
rather than us having a driver bid on that particular work, it goes to our extraboard assignments. And they
cover that service until the service change takes effect.
This has happened many times, though, since my tenure here. And I've only been here six years. So this
is not an anomaly. This is a way of doing business for us. And we've done it many, many times.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, AGM Fred Worthen. And thank you, General Manager-CEO Johnson. Mr.
Jessie Carter, thanks for joining us as well. Director Ruscha, did you have any follow up to that?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think just the answer that wasn't clear is the when. I understood a bit of the how.
And so when do we think that those seasonal adjustments will start at the earliest? Do we have any idea?
I heard you about the CBA. And I guess if I could add on to the follow-up-- is, have we've spoken with
ATU and asked if there is some negotiation room on that matter, recognizing that we did expect service
changes to go into effect a few weeks earlier?
FRED WORTHEN: So-ERIK DAVIDSON: AGM.

FRED WORTHEN: --to answer your question with regard to ATU, ATU has agreed to the change in the
service date itself. And any time that we do go outside that two-week window, we have to gain agreement
with our partners in the union to be able to do that.
We make the adjustments based upon where the needs are themselves. As was mentioned, there are
varying school dates that start throughout the region. And we make the adjustments based upon the start
dates and where we project overloads will happen. But the overloads are not strictly due to students.
Even though they've been called school trippers in the past, these are normal operating services that are
open to the public. It just happens to be that a lot of the overload stems from school traffic itself. But these
are public services that are open to anybody and everybody.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Move to Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. That's super helpful to understand. Just to make sure I understand,
you'll see how the buses in those tripper areas-- these buses that are listed here-- these routes, I should
say-- that as they start to get overloaded, you would be filling in those tripper routes?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, we build special orders. And our team just basically creates them inside of our
service. And then it goes directly to the operating bases. And they assign them on a day-by-day basis
until the run board takes effect.
Once the run board takes effect and the operator bid kicks in, then it becomes a regular assignment with
a regular operator his-self. So the only difference is that the service is just being filled in by a temporary
operator than a bid piece of work.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And-- thank you. That's helpful. And we heard from several people tonight. I
think Director Ruscha is right. There was some conflating with the Zero Fare for Youth, but there was
concern about this. Do we have a way of getting that out to the public that this will be happening, that
we're not postponing all the tripper changes?
JESSIE CARTER: Right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
JESSIE CARTER: Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development. I do want to underpin what
Mr. Worthen had just stated. And that is, this is something that happens on a regular basis.
Many of you who have been with the district on the Board-- serving on the board for a while know that our
actual date for the September service change is actually the first Sunday of September. So it is quite
typical that we actually introduce our school services in the second week of August.
That is normal. That is absolutely normal. It's what we do on a regular basis. And the same is true when
we look at ending services in the May time frame. So this is only extending that further two weeks.

And as Mr. Worthen mentioned, we will cover the work with special service orders and the extraboard
until the operators from ATU who actually voted the work start their regular service.
FRED WORTHEN: [WHISPERING]
JESSIE CARTER: How we're communicating to the public-- thank you, Mr. Worthen, in reminding me of
the question-- is through our normal brochure process, the marketing that goes out-- the trans fluxes on
the buses. They will announce the beginning of the school service.
Also, we talk to the schools rather quite a bit. Our staff does outreach to the principal's office. Because as
you may know, many of our schools have different bell times by different days of service and by each
school. That's especially true of DPS and also with Boulder County Schools as well.
So we are in contact with them. They let us know of their concerns. And we have been in constant
conversation with them since the May time frame.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Carter. And I see General Manager and CEO Johnson would like to
speak?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Mr. Carter, for that
information. If I can expound somewhat-- so as we communicate the tripper services-- that's done via
social media. In addition, we're doing email blasts to all the school districts so they are aware.
There was a meeting held just today as it relates to creating special maps and schedules specific to
schools along the various routes. And that will be disseminated. And it's similar to what we did with, like,
the Auraria Campus when we were looking at impacts-- and so basically specialized communications for
activity centers-- and it's what Mr. Green alluded to-- as we qualify activity centers.
So that is in the works. And that's something more specific to getting to those areas in which we know
people are heavily reliant upon mobility options such as RTD's transit services. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And we'll go to Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I guess to put a finer point and to delve deeper on the
increase of frequency for the E and H lines to 30 minutes, General Manager, Mr. Worthen, Mr. Carter-so-- and we discussed this in the Operations Safety and Security meeting.
What would it take for our people power in order to reach that 30-minute frequency? And then what would
it take to reach 15-minute frequency? And sort of walk me along here a little bit as to our people power
and our ability with resources and future resources to meet a 15-minute frequency in the future. Thank
you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, I'll start-ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.

DEBRA JOHNSON: --and then yield the floor. And I see Mr. Jensen is online. So there's a couple of
important factors we have to take in consideration, because it's not purely about people power, as we
look at anticipated work relative to doing preventative maintenance and track inspections.
I have said in this forum before, that this organization has one operational light rail facility. And that
operating facility is on the alignments and utilizes the E and H to gain access to deployment throughout
the entire area. And as we talk about those 30-minute headways, collectively, there are segments that will
have greater propensity of service.
But as we think about where we're going, and as we talked about being more flexible and agile in
managing our customers' expectations, we would be remiss to try and do 15-minute headways when
there's only one way in and one way out when we think about trains deadheading collectively throughout
the network.
And so that was one of the critical factors in which I sat down with the team and assessed going forward.
Because we did not want to put forward a schedule in which we had no control over the throughput
relative to the deployment of light rail [INAUDIBLE].
So with that, if I can yield the floor to Mr. Jensen to see if he wants to add greater context to what I've
stated and then also to the gentlemen that are here in the room-- so Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Chair, if I may?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, thank you for joining us.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes. Good evening. So about the only thing I would add to what Miss Johnson said was,
one of the challenges that we're having right now this summer is train meets at locations where they're
single-track. Because we've got to sequence the trains properly through that. If a train is delayed getting
into single-track, then that delay cascades throughout its trip.
With the addition of speed restrictions with the next run board, we're anticipating taking delays along the
southwest corridor such that a train may lose a headway. What that does is it puts the train-- it's a
scheduling issue.
So what that does is it puts the train out of sequence of where it ordinarily would be. And then where the
pinch points are for all of the trains-- the E, H, and D lines, and W lines-- into town all at the same time-- it
could create further delays for those trains.
So the more trains we have in the system operating at once going to the same location-DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, he's back.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen. I'm so sorry. We had a connectivity issue. And we lost about one minute
worth of the-DAVE JENSEN: Oh, man.
ERIK DAVIDSON: --the audio there. I'm sorry to ask you to back up, but if you wouldn't mind just backing
up a little bit?

DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Mr. Jensen, last we heard-- when you were talking about the train meets.
Because that's critically important as we look at our network holistically. So if you can pick up from where
you talked about the train meets, that would be helpful.
DAVE JENSEN: Yep. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: And so maybe I'll summarize by saying this-- the train meets are critical for us to be able
to maintain a reliable service. The more trains we have in the system, the more challenging it will be for
us to be able to coordinate those train meets, and the less reliable we're likely to become.
So beyond just the people power issue, it was scheduling and the anticipated delays that we'll be taking
as a result of the slow zones that we're issuing. And so it's our attempt to be proactive, to be more reliable
by providing a little bit less service.
And what we didn't want to do-- and I'll defer to Mr. Carter and Mr. Worthen on this as well. What we
didn't want to do was reduce service on the D Line. But what we are able to do is increase service on the
E and H lines and still be able to provide some reliable service.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, thank you. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. As Dave mentioned, the
scheduling issue is a critical issue for us. On the E Line, what we did is we made adjustments to running
time. And the single-track operations complicates things.
So we reallocated resources to adjust the running times on the E Line. Plus, we added in an extra train on
the D Line because of anticipated slowdowns as we have inspections occurring along that area. We need
to make sure that our drivers have respite.
So this isn't a simple solution itself. It's very complicated. But as Dave mentioned, the single-track running
area has really complicated our ability to schedule. And the slow downs have continued to create
challenges from a scheduling perspective.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Rosenthal, please-- follow up?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And as a final point, just using that word, Mr. Worthen, "complexity"-there has been a suggestion by some input from the community that we change our schedule every day
or frequently in order to reflect the repairs and inspections that we are doing.
And so given that-- I guess, to paraphrase what you're saying, too, is that it is not really possible to have a
new schedule every day because of that complexity. Is that correct?
FRED WORTHEN: No. Yes, thank you, Director Rosenthal. That is a great question. Think about it like
this. If you're pouring water in through a funnel, only so much water can go in through it at one time. It's
very similar.
We have congestion points where trains all collide and come together. We can only have so many trains
going through an area at a particular time itself. And it's kind of like, for lack of a better term, when you
stack dominoes. If you push one, all the dominoes fall.

The rail network isn't like the road network, where we can just find a detour and go around all the time.
When we hit those congestion points, there's only so much we can do. Sometimes we can do bypasses
or do single-tracks.
But when we're already in a single-track operation, we're very limited on what we can do. So it is very
complex. And thank you for that question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. Just a brief comment and back to the seasonal changes for
service-- when we're communicating out, if there's a way to-- and I know we're talking about complexity,
and I'm about to ask for simple-- but a way to communicate, right, where on the one hand, we say, a big
impediment to our bringing back more service frequency is people power.
And yet, the explanation to the Board is, well, we'll just add it as an-- I believe "extra board" is the correct
term for the additional service. It begs the question in most people's minds-- in my mind. And I know, Miss
Johnson, you've taken time with me to sit down-- and as have you, Mr. Carter, Mr. Worthen-- to explain
this to me.
But if when we're communicating out publicly that it's not as easy as-- a, it's not maintainable throughout
the entire period-- but a way to explain to people, hey, this is how it works. And yes, we're able to flex and
get these extra boards filled. And here's why.
It doesn't necessarily mean that we have the ability to bring all service to the full system optimization plan,
even though we can do it for this one limited case for the two to four weeks on each side of the year.
I think that might help a lot with our communications with others and would certainly be appreciated.
Though, I know it's not an easy task to make it simple because I know we've all spent a lot of hours with
my years ago having concerns around this. So thank you, guys.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director. Director Harwick, please.
IAN HARWICK: Mr. Carter, I just want to get some clarity. So either with the extra boarding or the tripper
service, when will these-- what date will these specifically start running?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: [INAUDIBLE] if I may? OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development. So-- and I appreciate you
wanting a direct answer as to when.
So if I were to give a date right now, I would say the second week of August. And I will get you a better
date, the exact date when the first school-- or I'm sorry, the first tripper service would start.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: So--

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director.
IAN HARWICK: So the second week of August is the 12th. School starts the 19th. So in theory, this
service will be operational for the first day of DPS school.
Although, I understand it's not a school tripper-- just a tripper. But in theory, it should be operational for
those families that may need it for one thing or another?
JESSIE CARTER: Right. So Director Harwick, I'm going to say that DPS is not the only school that we
serve.
IAN HARWICK: Sure, I just-JESSIE CARTER: Right, right.
IAN HARWICK: So we happen to be looking at their school date, that's all.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Understood. Understood.
IAN HARWICK: As a JeffCo parent.
JESSIE CARTER: I understand the bias, even if it's there. But at the same time, I'd have to point to
Boulder County, the SKIP, CU Boulder. Those services will start earlier than that. But I can't say it's the
12th.
And I'm not sure. So I'll get back to you and the full Board on exactly when the first tripper-- oh, first
tripper service will start.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And I see General Manager-CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, just-- thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And just to amplify the point to what Mr.
Carter is stating, recognizing that there is a myriad of different start dates, we are working in tandem with
those critical activity centers and disseminating information so they in turn can be used as a conduit to
provide that information to their faculty, to their students, and to administrators.
And so that's what we're doing as we go forward. Because it's hard to give a blanket date, as Mr. Carter
pointed out. But the intent here is to ensure that we do have what we call extraboard-- i.e., analogous,
since we're talking about school, with substitute teachers. You want to ensure that you have enough
substitutes to fill in as we go forward. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you, Director. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mister-- Thank you, Mr. Chair. For whatever it's worth, Jefferson County
also starts on the 19th.
But so I recognize this may be how we do things. I would like to just say for the record that, in our last
service change, I got a lot of emails from parents because-- and this was last September-- because we
did have that two-week delay.

So I feel like I've heard a range of dates that schools-- OK-- that this additional service will start. And I
also represent Paul Sandoval campus and the far northeast. I spoke to hundreds of people and said that I
would be a yes vote on our service changes based on the information that I had from staff.
I still don't know if that-- I still don't know when that service is going to start. And I also just-- for those of
us who are more intimate with the seasonal school adjustments, either because we're staff or we have
children that depend on them, it also-- I mean, it does mean like potential longer walk, misconnections,
and the like.
I know, like, the 65 and other routes that serve Northfield-- or the Paul Sandoval campus are standing
room, standing bus only, even with that additional service.
So given that this is in our packet, and we're voting on it, and I can't vote on something I can't see-- I'm
not comfortable-- I'm going to be a no vote tonight.
And I would just encourage staff and Board just as policy to try to in the future raise our own expectations
of ourselves and provide better consistency. Because again, as a parent, but also as a person who
represents an area where most of our middle and high school students are dependent upon us to get to
school, I hear about this all year long.
So I'm not comfortable voting yes today, but I feel like we can make some improvements. And I
appreciate the dialogue and, as always, for Mr. Carter being a good sport. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah. It just seems like we're using a lot of manpower for this transitional period. You talk
about reaching out to schools and schools reaching out to you, hoping to have drivers sign up for it.
Wouldn't it be just easier to change the run board from the 1st of September back to the 1st of August?
We do have a CBA coming up. I think it's something that should be brought up to ATU. It just seems like
we're wasting a lot of manpower for this transition.
And the second question-- didn't we used to have 15-minute service on the south lines, the E and the-- is
it the H? So what has changed? I don't understand. I'm really having a hard time wrapping my arms
around that one.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you. Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development. Yes, we did-- on
the E and the H, we had former 15-minute service frequency. And combined on the southeast corridor,
that makes a 7.5-minute frequency.
What we're suggesting is a temporary change of going to 30-minute service on each of those. So the
southeast corridor would be the equivalent of the southwest corridor, operating at 15-minute combined-30-minute on the E and 30-minute on the H.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: So why is it temporary?

DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may-- once again, as we talked about doing our-JAIME LEWIS: And I apologize. I'm just not getting it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, no, no.
JAIME LEWIS: OK, guys?
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're totally fine.
JAIME LEWIS: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So as we are sharing and we talk about the residual impacts going forward, our one
operating facility, which is the [INAUDIBLE] light rail line-- everything is coming in and out that will be
impacted on the E and H lines, if I'm correct.
And so what I'm saying is, there's only one throughput. We do not have another operating facility. So
when we deploy trains, they have to come out of that network.
And so as we talk about train meets, as it relates to how the system is set up, we run the risk of not
having the train meets. And then the domino effect that Mr. Worthen was calling out will impact us
because we don't know what we don't know at this juncture.
So as we heard community feedback, we're trying to be intentional by managing expectations by saying
we're doing 30-minute headways in lieu of 15. Because we run the risk of losing those headways if in fact
we Institute a slow speed order or we're out on the main line.
Because we have to deactivate our system in recognizing that one train has to get from one end of the
system all the way back to Elati. We would have a convergence of all these [INAUDIBLE] trying to get into
the yard.
JAIME LEWIS: So the only-DEBRA JOHNSON: There's only one door to go into, for all intents and purposes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis, please go ahead.
JAIME LEWIS: But you still had the San Elati station. You had 15-minute intervals. What you're saying is
that you're predicting that there might be some more-- is that what you're saying, that there might be more
issues?
DEBRA JOHNSON: For all intents and purposes, yes. Because this is the line in which-- is older than the
one we're examining. So we're doing the southest. We're doing the southeast.
And so questions were posed-- well, didn't you plan for this? What we're trying to do now is plan for this.
And by leveraging additional people power-- I say that because there's women and other individuals that
work here. As we look at the people power, we're trying to be intentional.
And so also within our network, in some instances, we have single-track, right? We do not have various
pockets where we can store rail cars that we can deploy. We don't have that same level of flexibility and

agility. So what we're trying to do is be intentional so we can manage the expectations, so we have
greater schedule adherence.
So then we're not doubling back and have people say, oh, my gosh, the train was 40 minutes late, as
opposed to the flexibility that we are providing at this point in time-- and I see Mr. Jensen nodding his
head-- whereby we're saying the 30-minute headways because this gives us greater opportunities as we
go forward to manage customer expectations.
JAIME LEWIS: So when you say 30 minutes, you're not talking about a correction. You're still talking
inspections. There's nothing you can do in 30 minutes to correct a problem, correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, no, no, no. What I'm saying is that we have headways of 30 minutes. And there
are segments that run in parallel. And certain areas will have 15-minute headways. Right now, we're at
60-minute headways. Am I correct?
ERIK DAVIDSON: That's correct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So in the presentation here-- and let me find the right package page. So if you look
on package page 352, there is a graphic that depicts the number of trains each hour.
And so as you look at the D, the E, the H Line, right here is in and around where all the trains are coming
in to get to Elati as we look at the D Line.
And so what we're trying to do is to ensure that we have ample service out on the line to maximize our
overall operating efficiency while managing expectations and schedule adherence.
And so when you see this, this is an increase. And on the next page, on package page 353, there is this
table, whereby it shows the level of trains that we had running each hour and the increase as relates to
September.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any follow up?
JAIME LEWIS: So what would be the situation where you could go back to 15-minute service? What are
we looking for? What is the goal line? I guess I'm asking.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So the goal line is that we want to ensure that our track is in a state of good repair in
and around Elati, because we don't understand what we might find. s that's a lesson learned we took from
the other preventative maintenance inspections. So we don't want to create 15-minute headways where
we would have trains stacked, and we would lose one on the schedule, and then we create a greater
headway in between.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director, any follow up?
JAIME LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Thank you. General Manager-CEO.
JAIME LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Any further-- there's no further questions. I'm going to call a roll vote.

Treasurer Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Yes
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I am a yes as well. That is 13 yes votes, two no votes. The
motion will pass. Thank you.
We will now move to our next recommended action. This is Item H. This is for the bylaw amendment to
allow the Chair to appoint Committee members in certain circumstances.
This is for the Board to amend Article VI, Section 1, Paragraph A to empower the Chair of the Board of
Directors to make certain committee appointments. Do we have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved-- Bouquet.
JAIME LEWIS: Second-- Lewis.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Bouquet. And Lewis is the second. I'll open up for any discussion. I first of all
would just like to say thank you to Director Lewis for joining us here and thereby identifying the need for
this bylaw amendment.
And, Mr. Kroll, thank you for recognizing the opportunity to refine this and streamline the process here to
improve it. Do we have any discussion on this?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick question-- it says "to allow the chair to appoint committee members in
certain circumstances." I actually went through this before the executive committee rather than right now.
And I thought it was requiring the chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does require-- I can address-- there was some discussion around the use of the
word "shall." If you read the amendment, it has the word "shall," which inherently requires that the
appointment is made.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the-ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: The title isn't exactly-- I mean, I like the idea of allowing it, but I don't think that's
what it says. So maybe it's something to look at, ultimately. I'll be a yes vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Seeing no further discussion or questions, are there any no votes? That
will pass with 15 yes and zero no.
We'll now move to our next recommended action. This is Item I. This is for the Property Station Naming
Policies. It is recommended for the Board to approve both the Property and Station Naming Policy as well
as the Honorary Property and Station Naming Policy, Procedures, and Naming Review Rubric. Do we
have a motion?

JAIME LEWIS: Lewis.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movement as Lewis, the second as Bouquet. Again, as we discussed this at
Executive Committee and had a chance to review this in detail-- and I thank Mr. Jack Kroll, our Board
Office Executive Manager, for the detailed walkthrough and presentation of what we've arrived at.
Director Sloan, Director Ruscha, thank you for your work on this.
Many members of staff, General Manager and CEO Johnson, Mr. Davies-- a host of folks have worked on
this. We thank you for your work.
Is there any discussion? Are there any questions to inform the vote at this time? All right. I see Director
Tisdale. Director Tisdale, please go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to have a policy. And I think that
this is an excellent first start on the policy.
I have had an opportunity to review this during the course of the Executive Committee meeting that we
had. I participated in that as an auditor.
I am troubled by some of the things contained in here. My understanding is that we can adopt this policy.
But as I have often said as to so many things, we can also amend this policy if we find something that
gives us pause.
I, for example, look at the notion of sponsorships. And I express again my continuing disappointment that
we don't have a sponsorship for the A Line and that we don't have sponsorship for some of the stations
along the A Line, which are available to us. And that's money that we're just kissing goodbye to. And it's
unfortunate and, as I say, disappointing.
All that said, I just wanted it understood that I think, perhaps with the benefit of some time, there might be
some further revisions to this that might be appropriate to consider. But I am happy to see that we have
sought to take some of the past actions and consolidate them into one coherent statement.
And so for that reason, I'm happy to see the matter go forward. Thank you very much. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Tisdale. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. And just as a point to Director Tisdale's comments, I think I too
am disappointed we haven't seen someone pick up the sponsorships. But I also recognize that that may
mean a signal from the market that they do not find the same value that we perceive in our goods for
those same naming rights.
And perhaps an honorary station would actually improve the value with all the events going on around it
for ancillary marketing opportunities, such as bus stops and other RTD-owned assets which could take on
some sponsorships. So I view it as a both-and. Thanks.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Not seeing any other hands raised, I will call. Are there any no
votes? Seeing none, that will pass 15 aye, zero no, zero absent. Thank you very much.
And that concludes our recommended actions portion of the agenda this evening. We will now move to
our Report of Director Activities. Would anyone like to report on their activities for the month of July?
Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Not a report on my own, but I do want to point out there's a recruitment event tomorrow on
the 31st at the Platte Division to recruit more drivers.
And there's a $4,000 bonus, if I'm correct. So, yeah, if directors can use your emails to get that word out, I
think that would be great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you, Director Lewis. Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I continue to do research for the Latinos in Transit capstone project that I am
working on, which will be presented in September.
But this month, I availed myself of the opportunity to go as a Gates Fellow to Harvard University and
attend the Harvard Kennedy School of Public Policy. And I completed my program and matriculated last
Friday. I was noticeably absent from several committees. Thank you for taking up the work and picking up
the slack for me with my absence.
But I was paying attention, reading the packets, being informed, and participated to the best of my ability,
especially for finance and planning, to be ready for tonight's meeting. I would also like to say that that just
adds to the knowledge around this table.
And I am really proud to work with all of you as elected leaders of this district, where we exercise our
authority and power that's given to us not by the legislature but by the people who put us here, to be very
clear. And that knowledge that we bring from our respective educations is really important.
So thank you for everybody who supported me through that. I appreciate it very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. And a very heartfelt congratulations to you. And thank you for
honoring us all in that way.
DOUG TISDALE: [INAUDIBLE] Guzman.
[LAUGHTER]
ERIK DAVIDSON: And next, we'll move to Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And so I was very fortunate to attend the APTA conference in
San Jose in regards to both a forum for board directors nationwide as well as board staff.
And so we had a couple of Board staff, and myself, and a couple Board members who attended. I
particularly would like to thank Board member Tisdale for really urging us Board members to attend. I
learned a lot. And I wish to a lot extent, I had gone four years ago to really help inform me about some of
the best practices.

I got to meet board members from around the country, many of whom are experiencing some of the
issues that we do; some do not; some who I have been learning from; and some who were, quite frankly,
envious of some of the good work and accomplishments at RTD.
And so I really would like to urge all Board members in the future to attend the APTA conferences in order
to also continue their own learning about transit and about what we do as Board members. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And I thank all of you who were able to attend-Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board; Gillian; and Director Sloan; Director Rosenthal, who were
there in San Jose.
It was a delight to be able to chair that conference and to see we had over 200 transit board members
and transit board administrators who knew the way to San Jose and participated in an excellent meeting
that really provided great opportunities for learning. And a special shoutout to Deputy Chief Steve
Martingano, who was there and spoke on our safety panel, which was terrific.
And thank you very much, Director Rosenthal, for encouraging people to become involved with APTA.
And we have new Board members who will be sitting in these seats sooner than you think. And it's
imperative that they understand the benefit of becoming engaged with APTA and taking leadership
positions in APTA.
And then, also, I would like to say it was my privilege on Friday to attend the American Public
Transportation Foundation Board meeting for scholarship selection, where we awarded over 1/3 of $1
million to 41 deserving students around the country who want to pursue careers in transit. Thank you, Mr.
Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And yes, thanks to all who attended-- and also
acknowledging Mr. Kroll's panel as well. Thank you very much to all involved. Secretary, your hand is
raised.
JACK KROLL: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. All right. Seeing no additional hands raised, we'll move on to other
matters.
I'd first like to open the floor specifically to Directors Ruscha and Harwick to briefly update this body
following their efforts on their work related to Vision Zero.
As I had committed the Executive Committee, I think it's prudent for us to spend some time in other
matters to hear an update from them. They've done a great deal of work on this matter.
And the Board Office has distributed materials to directors in advance of the meeting today, which
represent those that have also previously been shared with the Operations Safety and Security
Committee as well.
So thank you for the hard work. Directors Ruscha and Harwick, I'll hand off the floor to you for the first
other matters of the evening.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Harwick and I did rock paper scissors. And I lost.
[LAUGHS] So.
Anyway, so before-- my directors should all have a binder with our presentation to OSS, a community
letter of support, which we anticipate will receive a lot more signatures before this comes back to OSS in
September, as well as some additional resources and a concept which we just called Preliminary
Recommendations of What Vision Zero Could Look Like At RTD.
So just briefly, over 36 participants, not including directors or staff, joined a pretty intensive stakeholder
process that began last year. In fact, I think next week would be our one-year anniversary on this project.
So the coalition met as a whole nine times between October 10 and January 30 after we had gotten our
community agreements and our drafting framework together. And then we had several other individual
stakeholder meetings as necessary.
Between those meetings and the directors who were involved, over 60 hours of meetings and
stakeholdering were logged prior to submitting the bulk of what you see in this report to RTD in February.
We also kept our GM-CEO apprised along the way. And we did have some staff representation at several
of our meetings, including Mr. Summers's team. And they lent an assist a couple of times as well, which
we really appreciated.
We also had visiting subject matter experts like, for example, from DOTI and DRCOG, just providing
neutral SME advice, and feedback, and additional resources as we went through this project. A lot of
what we did was divided up into two groups.
My colleague Director Harwick here really took the lead on pedestrian dignity and multimodal
infrastructure. So that covered things like bus stop access for folks walking, rolling, or cycling, just
recognizing that 2/3 of our transit riders start as pedestrians; pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure,
including sidewalks, ADA curb cuts, et cetera; and reducing car trips, modal shift; as well as transitoriented development and the like.
And then the other track focused a lot on things like rail station, transit facility design, park and ride, some
ADA language access, operator training and support, accident incident reporting, and things that might
just be more technical and regulatory in nature.
Again, the report that you see that says "a preliminary report" is just what community groups from-- and
experts from across the district came together and said, hey, if we did Vision Zero at a transit agency,
particularly one this large with this unique status in terms of its statutory construction, this is what it might
look like.
I do want to be really, really clear that it's not the intention of the coalition to come to the Board and say,
pass these, like, 48 recommendations. And some of them we're already doing.
The intent of the coalition was to demonstrate to the Board what was possible if we went through this
process, but really ask the Board to pass a Vision Zero policy rooted in Vision Zero principles, which are
also endorsed by US DOT and FHA, and then provide some guidance for staff. And we will work with staff
on, say, a timeline and some of the details of that language of what would Vision Zero look like at RTD.

And in order for that to be successful-- and again, rooted in these internationally recognized Vision Zero
principles. We would have to make a public commitment. Anything we'd put in a plan would have to be
actionable. We'd have to have KPIs. There would be community engagement, et cetera.
So again, you have some information in front of you. There's also a link in the report that takes you to our
library and all of our documents if you'd like to learn more. But I'm also happy to answer any questions
from directors.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha, for presenting that and for the materials. And certainly,
thanks to both of you for the work. Before moving to any other matters, are there questions specifically as
it relates to this item for Director Ruscha or Director Harwick? Director Dishell, please go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, yeah-- not a question, just a suggestion/reccomendation. First, thank you
guys for putting all of this together. I know how much work it takes.
Second, just want to recommend, should the Board adopt the Vision Zero policy, that you all-- and happy
to help as I'm able-- look at the other places where it makes sense for it to get picked up.
Boards, especially one like this, often have a number of different policies that may not get picked up in the
fiscal policy, that may not get picked up in the strategic plan, that may not get picked up, right?-- and so
making sure that, should we choose to adopt the policy, part of that implementation plan is making sure
that fiscal notes have that picked up, that it aligns with all the other 10 different plans we have going on.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Would you be reviewing statutes like the recent one that was passed
about motorcycles? There was, like, four motorcyclists killed last weekend in separate wrecks. And I don't
know if you're driving around, but they try to make a lane where there's no lanes. And it's just a disaster
waiting to happen. So I would certainly encourage you to take a look at that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I guess my question for the sponsors of this possible
proposal is, it seems to me some of this is sort of in the realm of different-- like, for example, DOTI in
Denver and other planning departments around the RTD district. So how have you engaged them in this
process so that they can adopt, if they haven't already done so, some of these ideas?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha or Harwick.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'll take it. Thank you, sir. And thank you, Director Rosenthal, for your question.
So we did dialogue with DOTI and DRCOG. And we took some of our inspiration from existing Vision
Zero plans that have been passed locally or are also in process. And I hope I understand your question
correctly.
But again, the intent of this is to provide the policy framework and then the actionable plan would have to
be developed by staff, possibly brought back to the Board for approval. And then we would expect that
that further dialogue would continue.

I also just wanted to note that the Vision Zero network has what they call Vision Zero communities. It's
like a gold star. And there has yet to be a transit agency listed. However, there is one MPO, and it
happens to be DRCOG, which I think is an excellent opportunity for a partnership.
And that is a resource and a partner that maybe other transit agencies, even if they work with localities on
Vision Zero projects-- they don't have in terms of that breadth and depth. And so I think, again, there's
absolute space for us to step in and help local communities recognize their plans as well as see what we
can do as a transit agency to advance Vision Zero internally. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just a quick follow-up-- so in terms of action items by RTD and by our General
Manager and her staff, maybe just mention one possible Board action and kind of just maybe describe it a
little bit further as to how you would like to see us adopt it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And thank you, Director Rosenthal. So the key Board action that the
coalition is asking is essentially that we make a commitment to Vision Zero.
And we would adopt principles that are in line with Vision Zero principles and, again, ask staff to do that
work in that action plan. Because we feel that would be under staff's responsibility.
I think in recent memory, maybe something similar or a close parallel would be when directors worked on
TOD policy and then gave staff some guidance. And then it was implemented from there. So that would
be, I think, kind of a similar construct.
But certainly anything coming out of September or later would be done in collaboration with staff-- that we
would be setting the policy framework. And it would be up to staff to deliver on that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So as one of the three directors that initiated this project with Ruscha and Harwick, I
would just like to say to the Board, I really do hope you spend some time reading through these materials.
A lot of work did go into it. It's really important. But I also think it's important to look at it from the
customers' point of view.
And the community members that we engaged did say that no Vision Zero policy is possible without
taking into consideration the point of view of the public transit view. And that's not part of anything that's
going on right now. That's us. So we have to begin somewhere in how we do this.
Now, that's not to say we're not already doing it and that we're not already concerned with safety,
because clearly we are. But it's also to say, in commitment of doing this work within the communities, as
Director Rosenthal pointed out, working with DRCOG, working with DOTI, working with CDOT, working
with other agencies, we need to be at that table so we can actually assess where we can support this
work and create a safer pedestrian and transit system for all of our community that we serve.
To that end, just a quick shoutout to my folks in District C who are on the calls, and making public
statements, and participating in this. Because it's a lot of you. And I hear you.

But also, just I really do ask you to spend a little bit of time looking at this. And if you have questions, feel
free to reach out to us. A lot of the work has been carried forward by Director Ruscha and Director
Harwick so that we don't violate any public records, or [INAUDIBLE], or sunshine nonsense, blah, blah,
blah, when we did our work.
And so I was happy to step back and work on other things. But Director Lewis was, before a Director, a
part of this coalition and, after becoming a Director, continues to be a supporter of this. Thank you,
Director Dishell, for participating as well.
But we're all available to you if you've got questions-- so just throw my support behind it and ask for your
review. And we'd take any feedback from you. It'd be great.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, everyone, for reading through this and really giving it the time that it
deserves. Thank you, Director Guzman, for, one, being with us there to get this kicking and just also your
strong support in that.
I totally let JoyAnn lead on this one, in this. But I just want to thank her for doing it-- putting this binder
together and then speaking tonight.
But this is an opportunity for RTD to lead-- to lead in the nation but also lead in the community. It's an
opportunity for us to build really strong relationships with our municipalities, whether that's Denver-obviously the largest one, but all of the other ones as well. And a lot of them have not done the Vision
Zero work. And this is an opportunity to bring that expertise to them.
Like, Arvada does not have one. I'd love to see it, but they don't have it. And this is that opportunity to
show them what's possible and then hopefully leverage this work to get them to do it as well. And then in
the process, we can build out regionally one of the best Vision Zero networks around.
So again, I just really appreciate your time listening to us speak at OSS squared and JoyAnn this
evening. So thank you, again. Really appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Harwick. Thank you, Director Ruscha. I appreciate the
presentation here. Other questions on this?
All right. Seeing none, we look forward to next steps. My understanding is this will be agendized at the
Operations Safety and Security Meeting in September. Are there other matters to come before the Board
this evening? Yes, Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, quickly, I just wanted to thank staff. I noticed we're starting to use bus bridges
more-- and our emergency situations, specifically the one where somebody was cutting our copper wires.
So thank you for that. It just seems like we're reacting more quickly to situations like that. And I do
appreciate that.

One question, though-- I know Senator Bennet mentioned last week that he's bringing in $63 million for
infrastructure projects for transit at the US Department of Transportation. So I'm just curious if that's on
our radar at all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager-CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Was that in reference to earmarks? I'd have to get back with you as it relates to that
because I don't-JAIME LEWIS: The way they presented it-- they just said they were bringing money to Colorado for
transit, for transportation. So I don't know what that, quote unquote, "transportation" means. So that's why
I'm asking if you could check into that. I would appreciate it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. The one thing that's top of mind-- I was notified just yesterday by the Regional
Administrator as it relates to additional funds for Colfax BRT. And appropriation tables are being sent. It
could be that. But that's purely speculation because I just got the call yesterday. So that's what I surmise
that could be, but I don't know-JAIME LEWIS: If we could get a clarification, that would be great. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, yes. We can double back. Thanks.
JAIME LEWIS: Appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I don't know if anybody would have an answer to this-- but the horns on the G and
the A Line going off at all hours of the day and night. I don't know.
I didn't experience it when I came back from Boston on the way back into Denver, but it was also after
10:30. And so I don't know if that had anything to do with a computer glitch or the copper wires missing.
But community's a little concerned that they don't understand what's going on.
Also, before you answer that-- I'm just going to say this quickly. And it's OK if you take my quote out of
context, Mr. Minor. I'm perfectly OK with that because my name is in the press.
But I will say this. RTD is not the only regional transportation agency authority or public transit system that
is facing issues with its rail lines.
To my count, while I was away at Harvard in Massachusetts, I was reading newspapers from Los
Angeles, from New York, from Massachusetts, I do believe-- I can't-- Oregon, a few other places where
their red lines-- and I don't know why.
The color red is my favorite color. But all of the red lines seem to be down all over the country while
they're doing this work during the summertime, when it makes sense to do it.
And so when we're unfairly sometimes and unjustly compared to other public transit agencies, I want to
remind the public that we are in the trenches with all of the public transit agencies trying to keep our stuff
in a state of good repair. And it's not just us that are impacted by it.

So as much as I appreciate the outcry for faster rail service and, just throw more trains on there, as if
that's the answer to every problem-- it's not. And we have to be thoughtful about how we approach it.
Every one of those agencies has had to find workarounds. They've had to slow down trains. They'd have
to pull service. They've had to make things difficult to get the work done. And it is a challenging moment
for everybody across the nation.
And so I want to thank our customers for putting up with it. Because I'm one of them. And it drives me
nuts. And I feel bad. And my heart breaks every time I see something else going wrong and something
else happening.
But it's really, really important that we do this so that we can maintain a state of good repair. And I think in
the whole conversation, that particular phrase "state of good repair"-- whether you're reading your book
for the extra 40 minutes or not or you find another route, it's fine. But the state of good repair has to
happen.
And so to that end, if we know what's going on with the horns or we can communicate that out some way
somehow to my friends in Globeville, Alera, and Swansea at York, they'd really like to know what's
happening. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I'll start. And then I'll yield the floor to Dave
Jensen.
But as indicated earlier in my remarks, recognizing what's happening on the A Line with the copper theft,
the horns need to be blown because it has impacted the signalization, with crossing arms being stuck.
Because without that copper, there's the lack of the communication ability. And to ere on the side of
caution-- i.e., at crossings, need to blow the horn to warn people of the [INAUDIBLE] that are coming
forward.
As it relates to the G Line, that's another issue. And I'll yield the floor to Mr. Jensen, as we talk about
positive train control with the only supplier that does that in the entire country. And we have been working
with our partners to discern what the causal factors are.
Our communication staff has been sending out communique just like Mr. Jensen, and Mr. Summers, and I
conferred yesterday. We thought it was prudent to send out communique because the copper wires are
being stolen across the country.
To the point of all the newspapers you have read, we're not the only ones being hit. Because there's a
market for it. But with that, Mr. Jensen, please elaborate with any updates that you may have. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, and there's really not much of an update, other than one of the things that they did
discover on the G Line, which they discovered yesterday, was that there were also some copper wires
taken. And so that was the challenge that they were encountering.

But that was only part of it. And as Miss Johnson alluded to, there's a communication problem between
our positive train control and the vendor, which is Wabtec. So our partners, Denver Transit Operators, are
working in tandem with them.
And we are involved in that conversation as well to try and come up with the root cause of what's actually
happening. I don't have an update. I do have a meeting tomorrow on that. We can update the Board
accordingly as we get more updates.
My understanding, though, is that the horn use has been improved. And so there should be some
improvement today. And we're hoping for even more improvement tomorrow. And again, we'll keep you
and everyone abreast as things progress.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Jensen, Miss Johnson. Director Harwick, please.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. When we know something more, can I actually just get a phone
call and let me know? I'm not always checking my email. And I've been getting harassed by the Mayor of
Arvada-- well, no. Sorry. Sorry, Lauren.
I've been getting a lot of calls from the Mayor and a variety of other people. And if I could just sort of-- it'd
just be nice to get a super timely thing when we kind of at least have a little more information.
I know that's a little bit out of the ordinary, but it'd be really appreciated. Because I've been getting my butt
kicked, as I'm sure that Michael has as well. So thank you. Appreciate that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Harwick. All right. I did want to note something that jogged my
memory I had meant to touch on in my report there. Speaking of the summer, of a lot of difficulties-CrowdStrike happened this past month.
And we didn't spend a lot of time talking about that because we moved very swiftly. So as a professor of
mine told me once when I was first learning to be an engineer-- I was told, you're doing your job when
nobody knows you're there as an engineer.
So our information technology team acted very swiftly in what was a global crisis. Thank you for that work
and for getting us back up and going-- certainly one more stress.
So with that being noted, I don't see any other matters. Thank you, everybody. Before we adjourn, I'd just
like to remind everybody that we do have a Performance Committee meeting scheduled in August.
However, our next regularly scheduled Board meeting is not until Tuesday, September 24.
So we will see you there. Stay tuned for any other meetings that would be held in the interim. Seeing no
other discussion, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
JAIME LEWIS: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. The meeting is adjourned as of 8:13 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you--

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, July 30th, 2024.
July 30th, 2024
Erik Davidson, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Davidson,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) would like to respectfully submit public comment on the following topics:
Light Rail Speed Restrictions (“Slow Zones”)
GDT writes regarding the batches of 10 mph “slow zones” on the light rail network. We are appreciative of
staff’s efforts to fully answer our questions by email and the creation of a detailed website that aims to explain
what is happening in-depth. That said, two familiar issues have reemerged following the discussions and
explanations as to why this situation came about. Both (a) the operator shortage and (b) the lack of flexibility
around scheduling have been cited as the key reasons why light rail service has been and continues to operate
far below acceptable standards.
GDT remains critical of the agency’s current inability to provide schedules that will provide adequate rail
service to riders, and we repeat our call for temporary schedules. Coupled with the internal issues highlighted
by the recent Organizational Assessment, it is now abundantly clear that a major turnaround plan is needed
that will fix the agency's key underlying issues; in particular, we call upon the RTD Board to lead a
top-to-bottom review of the service planning and scheduling process with the aim to both (a) enable
the flexibility needed to publish temporary schedules and (b) modernize the route bidding process for
RTD to improve the of work-life balance for operators.
Downtown Light Rail Reconstruction Project - Latest Phase
GDT notes the change in construction phase on Monday, July 15th, on this important project that closes two
key grade crossings on 15th Street in Downtown Denver. While the Free MallRide and MetroRide got a
dedicated map (pictured below) to explain the changes, riders on all other Downtown bus routes were
effectively left to work it out for themselves via service alerts that simply listed which stops were losing service.
A key example was the westbound 15L, where there was nothing to indicate the major routing change that
skipped most of Downtown altogether and instead remained on Colfax heading directly to the Decatur-Federal
Station via the Colfax Viaduct.
While we note the 15th Street detour tool that has since been posted to the website, GDT urges the Agency
to consistently put resources and effort into visual and descriptive information on RTD’s “regular” bus
routes in a timely manner alongside special bus routes like the Free MallRide and Free MetroRide. Not
doing so risks alienating riders who use routes that intersect the entire network, and risks prioritizing Downtown
riders over the overall health of the network.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

September 2024 Service Changes
GDT notes two alterations to the September 2024 Service Changes that have been made since the public
engagement process; namely pushing the changes back from September 15th to the 29th and only restoring
the E and H lines to 30-minute frequency. We urge RTD to continue to be transparent on its website and
fully explain the reasons behind these decisions such as if they are related to either the Coping Panels
Project, the Downtown Light Rail Reconstruction Project, and/or the light rail speed restrictions.
It would be remiss of GDT to not point out that when we refer to “15 minute frequency”, we mean per line and
not a combined service on a particular corridor.
GDT appreciates the enhanced service information packet, in particular the attempt to publish the public
comments received in full (some comments are cut off in the packet), and the expanded public engagement
process. We look forward to a dialogue with the service development division regarding other areas where we
see opportunities for improvement
GDT has been made aware of the disparity between 2024-5 school year start dates and the delayed RTD
service change date which will leave some high school students in the District without seasonal fall / winter
levels of service (formerly referred to as “school tripper service”) for as much as 6 weeks this August and
September. GDT calls on RTD to publish a dedicated webpage of fall / winter service that are in effect
“school trippers” by educational institutions served. Any plans to mitigate the effect of this late service
change, perhaps by starting some fall / winter runs earlier than September 29th, should also be
communicated.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Ticket Vending Machine (TVM) Replacement Appropriation
GDT notes that one of the biggest barriers to those that are either unbanked or do not possess a working
smartphone to accessing RTD’s latest fare benefits such as fare capping is the requirement to obtain a
physical MyRide card via an RTD sales outlet. This is in stark contrast to other transit systems around the U.S.
such as L.A. Metro, Chicago CTA and Seattle’s Sound Transit (to name but a few) where any rider can
purchase a smartcard with either cash or a credit card at any ticket vending machine (TVM) and immediately
ride with the full benefits related to fares. We strongly encourage Directors to ensure the TVM
procurement includes the ability for the new TVMs to allow riders to both reload and buy account
based ticketing (ABT) smartcards to bring RTD into line with most other major US. transit systems.
Zero Fare for Youth Adoption
In addition, we understand that there is an agenda item to adopt the continuance of the Zero Fare for Youth
Program (along with its related Title VI fare equity analysis). We strongly encourage Directors ensure the
program’s continuance, given its ability to spur ridership and encourage youth to build habits around
taking transit in their day-to-day lives.
Vision Zero Adoption
GDT has been notified that there is likely to be some discussion for RTD to adopt Vision Zero principles as part
of the agency’s strategic planning and wider leadership culture. As a stakeholder in the community-driven
process that has led to this, GDT fully supports the initial recommendations and urges Directors to
support the adoption of Vision Zero principles and systems throughout RTD.

Thanks for all you do,

Richard Bamber

CC:

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Jake Cohen
Tuesday, July 30, 2024 11:34 AM
RTD Board Office
Public Comment July 30th

Follow Up Flag:
Flag Status:

Follow up
Flagged

Hello,
I am wri ng the board with deep concern for how RTD is being run. I am a strong believer in increasing ridership being
the path to viability for RTD.
The recent release of communica ons that suggest RTD was ac vely trying to keep a transporta on study to the airport
from including transit studies. This would have been at no cost to RTD other than some staﬀ me. This could have been a
path to ge ng outside funds to increase the frequency of the A‐Line the first impression many Denverites and visitors
get of RTD. More frequent headways are one of the key ways to increase ridership and there was a poten al for a federal
funds to help make this happen. Reports of no funding It may not have been the right choice but choosing to advocate
against Transit is not a posi on I can understand. If that is the values of the leadership we have real issues.
I encourage this board to ac vely consider an independent review of these ac ons and similar ac vi es preven ng the
system from being able to become be er.
Thanks,
Jake Cohen

1

Jillian Knapp-Rhodes
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Jake Cohen <jakecohen@me.com>
Tuesday, July 30, 2024 11:34 AM
RTD Board Office
Public Comment July 30th

Follow Up Flag:
Flag Status:

Follow up
Flagged

Hello,
I am wri ng the board with deep concern for how RTD is being run. I am a strong believer in increasing ridership being
the path to viability for RTD.
The recent release of communica ons that suggest RTD was ac vely trying to keep a transporta on study to the airport
from including transit studies. This would have been at no cost to RTD other than some staﬀ me. This could have been a
path to ge ng outside funds to increase the frequency of the A‐Line the first impression many Denverites and visitors
get of RTD. More frequent headways are one of the key ways to increase ridership and there was a poten al for a federal
funds to help make this happen. Reports of no funding It may not have been the right choice but choosing to advocate
against Transit is not a posi on I can understand. If that is the values of the leadership we have real issues.
I encourage this board to ac vely consider an independent review of these ac ons and similar ac vi es preven ng the
system from being able to become be er.
Thanks,
Jake Cohen

1

July 29, 2024
RTD Board of Directors
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Directors of the RTD Board,
We, the undersigned organizations, are writing to urge you to adopt a resolution committing to
Vision Zero at your September meeting and pursue a plan to implement a Vision Zero plan,
grounded in the recommendations of the RTD Denver Vision Zero Coalition (Coalition) and
within the Vision Zero Network framework from which it came. These well-researched
recommendations reflect the hard work and expertise of committed transit riders, subject
matter experts, and advocates who are passionate about addressing the growing, urgent issue
of safety in our transportation system.
The alarming rate of preventable fatalities and serious injuries within our transportation
system demands urgent action—starting with a public commitment to Vision Zero. Public
transit is a key part of improving roadway safety within our region.
The work of the Coalition reflects a strong commitment from community partners and a desire
for RTD to more actively engage in improving the safety of our entire transportation system.
The recommendations from the Coalition are actionable, meaningful, informed by best
practices, and aligned with RTD’s commitment to safety, and thus should be considered as RTD
develops a Vision Zero action plan of its own.
Further, the recommendations highlight a number of opportunities for RTD to work more closely
with local jurisdictions and community-based organizations to provide safe streets for all, which
aligns with RTD’s Strategic Plan commitments to transit equity, employee ownership, being a
strong community partner, and providing exceptional customer excellence to all transit riders.
As such, these recommendations should be viewed not as an entirely new undertaking, but
more of a realignment of agency actions with its existing values and should be embraced.
Making a commitment to Vision Zero is the right thing to do for transit riders, workers, and the
region at-large. We commend the RTD Directors and Coalition members for their leadership on
this effort. We again urge you to adopt a resolution committing to Vision Zero without
delay—and we look forward to our continued partnership and dialogue on this incredible
opportunity.
Thank you for all that you do.

Sincerely,
ATU 1001
Colorado Cross Disability Coalition
Denver Bicycle Lobby
Denver Streets Partnership
Greater Denver Transit
Pedestrian Dignity

t--

?'.:
(

VISION ZERO
RTD DENVER COA.LITION

#

t/RJW-ell,
STREETS

July 29, 2024
RTD Board of Directors
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Directors of the RTD Board,
We, the undersigned organizations, are writing to urge you to adopt a resolution committing to
Vision Zero at your September meeting and pursue a plan to implement a Vision Zero plan,
grounded in the recommendations of the RTD Denver Vision Zero Coalition (Coalition) and
within the Vjsjon Zero Network framework from which it came. These well-researched
recommendations reflect the hard work and expertise of committed transit riders, subject
matter experts, and advocates who are passionate about addressing the growing, urgent issue
of safety in our transportation system.

The alarming rate of preventable fatalities and serious injuries within our transportation
system demands urgent action-starting with a public commitment to Vision Zero. Public
transit is a key part of improving roadway safety within our region.
The work of the Coalition reflects a strong commitment from community partners and a desire
for RTD to more actively engage in improving the safety of our entire transportation system.
The recommendations from the Coalition are actionable, meaningful, informed by best
practices, and aligned with RTD's commitment to safety, and thus should be considered as RTD
develops a Vision Zero action plan of its own .
Further, the recommendations highlight a number of opportunities for RTD to work more closely
with local jurisdictions and community-based organizations to provide safe streets for all, which
aligns with RTD's Strategic Plan commitments to transit equity, employee ownership, being a
strong community partner, and providing exceptional customer excellence to all transit riders.
As such, these recommendations should be viewed not as an entirely new undertaking, but
more of a realignment of agency actions with its existing values and should be embraced.
Making a commitment to Vision Zero is the right thing to do for transit riders, workers, and the
region at-large. We commend the RTD Directors and Coalition members for their leadership on
this effort. We again urge you to adopt a resolution committing to Vision Zero without
delay-and we look forward to our continued partnership and dialogue on this incredible
opportunity.
Thank you for all that you do.

Sincerely,
ATU 1001
Colorado Cross Disability Coalition
Denver Bicycle Lobby
Denver Streets Partnership
Greater Denver Transit
Pedestrian Dignity

We Make Lives Better
Through Connections.

Vision Zero at RTD
A Proven, Ethics-Based Approach to Fostering a True Safety Culture

JoyAnn Ruscha

Ian Harwick

Director, District B

Director, District L

Agenda
• What is Vision Zero?
• Core Elements of Vision Zero Communities
• Stakeholder Engagement - RTD Vision Zero Coalition
• Background
• For Action
• For Consideration

• Comments or Questions?

bit.Iv/ RJPVisionZeroDocs

Vision Zero
Traffic deaths and severe injuries are never acceptable.

bit. ly/ RTDVisionZeroDocs

What is Vision Zero?

Vision Zero is a strategy to eliminate traffic fatalities and severe injuries on the principle that
traffic deaths and severe injuries are never acceptable.

TRADITIONAL APPROACH

VISION ZERO

Traffic deaths are INEVITABLE

Traffic deaths are PREVENTABLE

Requires PERFECT human behavior

Integrates HUMAN BEHAVIOR into approach

Should prevent COLLISIONS

Prevent FATAL & SEVERE CRASHES

Focus on INDIVIDUAL responsibility

Takes a SYSTEMS approach

Saving lives is EXPENSIVE

Saving lives is NOT EXPENSIVE

Vision Zero utilizes a Safe Systems approach, which is endorsed by the FHWA (Federal Highway
Administration) and the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE).
4

Safe Systems in Transportation
• Our transportation system should be designed and operated to
accommodate human mistakes
• Human bodies have limits for tolerating crash forces - so we should
design and Of)erate our transP.ortati=o_
n =..,s""te=m to avoid death and
severe injuries.
• Safe Systems Approach places an ethical emphasis on those who

The Safe System Approach
requires a culture that

have the authority and re~onsibilin, for the design and

places safety first and

management of transP.ortation systems - such as elected officials,

foremost in road system

agencies, engineers, planners, etc.

investment decisions.
Federal Highway Administration

Safe System Pyramid

bit. Iv/ RTDVisionZeroDocs

INDIVIDUAL
EFFORT

POPULATION
HEALTH IMPACT

Source: Visio n Zero Network

Vision Zero Agency Partners
• 'Moving Towards Zero Deaths' is in CDOT's Strategic Highway Safety Plan

• DRCOG adopted a Regional Vision Zero glan recognized by the VZN
Networ - and works with local governments to achieve Vision Zero goals

bit. ly / RTDVisionZeroDocs

"Traffic-related deaths and
severe injuries are a critical and
preventable public health
epidemic and social equity issue

• Denver, Boulder, Westminster, and Thornton adopted Vision Zero
• Federal funds are available to advance Vision Zero plans and infrastructure
upgrades. Ex:

in the metropolitan Denver
area. DRCOG, its member

governments and its partner
agencies are responsible for

• Safe Streets and Roads for All (SS4A)
• SMART - Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation

reducing crashes through safe
systems."
Taking Action on Regional Vision Zero

Why RTD Should Adopt a Vision Zero Action Plan
• Public transportation is a key tool in achieving Vision Zero
• Traffic fatality rates can decrease by 10%-40% by prioritizing transit and accessible pedestrian-friendly
infrastructure (via APTA)
■ Public transportation is part of the traffic network

• Be it a dedicated ROW or a bus stop, those who use interact with RTD are impacted by our decisions

•

ommunities need us!
• Partner agencies can't be successful in their Vision Zero Plans if we aren't active partners in the effort.

• We have an ethical responsibility to take advantage of our unique role in local transit
• As an independent transit agency, we are poised to lead the nation (and industry) in Vision Zero!

Remember: A third of RTD customers begin their transit journey as pedestrians!

.... .. VISION ZERO
CORE ELEMENTS

bit. ly / RTDVisionZeroDocs

Vision Zero & Strategic Planning

.................

, ............ ............................ ... ....... ................... , ...... 1
PRINCIPLES

CORE ELEMENTS

ACTION AREAS

)>
-0

"2.
,;·

~

0

u

~

o·

0
f-

::,

O<l ';

3
OJ
-<
er
Cl)

"'"'<lJ

~

.9- E

Humans Are Vullli?rable
lo Injury

u "'
C
Vl
·c w
a. .c
0

~

<lJ

C

:!;!

. ':Monluiring'1nd Evaluation

~ .0
0

C
::,

15·

....

R!&ponslhty ls Sltar!d

:,

C

.!"
er

I

--- !

s

- - •

~ ~

V,

OJ

....o E"'
~

1

,,-

<lJ

.2! E

ComprenellStve:

n1'

I

i

Cl)

69:'em.allCG Ind 111_~ ~ \J

"'QJ

Cm UJ

.

t=

Praac1ivevs. Reactive

.

• I

.

..... -. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •

~

•~

--:e--•.
--.

I I

_

_

■

g
OJ

"C
"C

•n:l~
T

~

E

<

Leadership and Commitment

bit. ly / RTDVisionZeroDocs

Public, High-Level,
and Ongoing
Commitment

Key elected officials & agencies (including transportation) publicly commit to a
goal of eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries. Partners continually
engage via cross-agency/jurisdictional collaboration.

Authentic
Engagement

Meaningful and accessible community engagement toward Vision Zero strategy
and implementation is employed-with a focus on equity.

IStrategic Planning

A Vision Zero Action Plan is developed, with explicit goals and measurable
strategies with clear timelines. It also identifies responsible stakeholders.

Project Delivery

Decision-makers and system designers advance projects and policies for safe,
equitable multimodal travel by securing funding and implementing projects,
prioritizing roadways with the mos pressin safety issues.
---

e

VISION ZERO

~ CORE ELEMENTS

Safe Roadways and Safe Speeds

bit. Iv 1RTDVisionzeroDocs

Complete Streets
for All

Complete streets are streets designed and operated to enable safe use and
support mobility for all users-such as bike lanes, sidewalks, bus-only lanes,
etc. These concepts are integrated into planning.

Context-Appropriate
Speeds

Travel speeds are set and managed to achieve safe conditions for the
specific roadway context and to protect all roadway users, particularly those
most at-risk in crashes. Proven speed management policies and practices are
prioritized to reach this goal.

Vision Zero prioritizes safe travel of people over expeditious travel of motor vehicles.

VISION ZERO
CORE ELEMENTS
2024

Data-driven Approach, Transparency, & Accountability
Equity-Focused
Ana lysis and
Programs

Commitment is made to an equitable approach and outcomes, including
prioritizing engagement & investments in under-served communities.

Proactive,
Systemic Planning

A proact' e, systems-based approach to safety is used to identify and
address top risk factors and mitigate potential crashes and crash severity.

Responsive,
Hot Spot Planning

A map of the community's fatal and serious injury crash locations is
developed, regularly updated, and used to guide priority actions and funding.

Comprehensive
Evaluation and
Adjustments

Routine evaluation of the performance of all safety interventions is made public
and shared with decision makers to inform priorities budgets, and updates to
the Vision Zero Action Plan.

e

vtSION ZERO

~ CORE ELEMENTS
2024

VISIO

RT0 DENVER COALITION

13

1.

-

deJuJeJt,
STREETS

Community Engagement

bit.lv/ RTDVisionZeroDocs

~

• Over 36 participants
• Met as a whole nine times between October 10th and January 30th, with other individual
stakeholder meetings held as necessary
• Over 60 hours of meetings were logged prior to submitting preliminary recommendations to
RTD in February

• Additional engagement (including RTD advisory committees) will be done before any
Actions are brought before the Board

Summary of Principles

bit.I v I RTDVisionZeroDocs

■ As those who have authority to effectuate almost all areas of policy and planning, the Board and

GM/CEO are jointly and primarily responsible for safety KPis related to those interacting with RTD
services, assets, or within our jurisdiction
• Where RTD does not have jurisdictional authority but operates a service, RTD should work
with said jurisdiction/s to reduce, mitigate, or eliminate safety risks
• Systems Approach should be emphasized over assuming "human error" is a root cause of an
incident or accident
•

ision Zero must be part of strategic planning (which includes short, medium, and long-term
budgeting)

~

bit.l v/ RTDVisionZeroDocs

Areas of Focus
• Track 1: Pedestrian Dignicy & Multimodal Infrastructure

• Bus stop access for people walking, rolling or cycling (including ADA, location, and amenities); pedestrian
& bicycle infrastructure within a one-mile radius - including sidewalks/railways, curb cuts/ramps and
pedestrian signals; reducing car trips (modal shift), TOD, etc.

• Track 2: Rail & Bus Safety
• Rail stations, transit facility, Park-n-Ride and maintenance facility site design, preventing rail deaths and
injuries (including death by suicide), operator training and support, accident/ incident reporting,
regulatory oversight, worker safety, etc.

VISION ZERO
RTD OENVEA COAUTtOJ,1

bit.l v/ RTDVisionZeroDocs

Drafting Guidelines
• Recommendations must

eaningfully relate to Vision Zero Network principles

• Recommendations are created through an intersectional lens
• We center disability access, language justice, and racial justice
• The transit workforce is at the forefront of our efforts and is a key partner in all Vision Zero planning

(~1
VISION ZERO
RTO DENVER COALITION

bit.Iv / RTDVisionZeroDocs

Drafting Guidelines
• Recommendations are ethics-based, but still actionable by RTD
• Recognizes that RTD is also a

sterns designer and thus a responsible agency for traffic safety

• Offers solutions that can be implemented by RTD (or under joint jurisdiction)
► Compels both infrastructure and systems to prevent incidents that cause harm

• Validates that most people who use transit begin their journey as ~strians
► Provides dignified solutions for all people who interact with the transit system

• Fosters an oi:,en and transparent safety culture that emphasizes innovation over compliance monitoring
► Respects the role of the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee (JLMSC)

r·; 1
July

VISION ZERO

For Board Action: Leadership and Commitment
• RTD makes a public commitment to Vision Zero
• Plan prioritizes the safety of all riders - with a focus on disability access, language justice, and racial equity

• Identified Benchmark: Hire a dedicated Director of Vision Zero to lead plan development and implementation

• RTD defines roles and performance metrics to track progress and stay accountable
• Vision Zero is incorporated to RTD's strategic plan/s, budgeting, and fiscal policy

• Identified Benchmark: Obtain recognition from the Vision Zero Network as a Vision Zero Community

• RTD engages in regular, trans arent communication and continuous collaboration
• Meaningful community engagement, with stakeholders informed of goals, achievements, and any challenges

For Action: Fostering Safety Culture

bit.I v/ RTDVisionZeroDocs

• Foster a safety-first culture where employees feel empowered to report issues, learn
from mistakes, and actively contribute to safety improvements
• Don't place blame on staff or the public - embrace smarter design, transparency, and systems redundancy
instead

• "Human error" is usually a causal factor - not the root cause
• Challenge everyone by asking, "What can I{we/you do to save lives/ prevent serious injury?"

• Proactively Collect Data, Identify the Risks, & Work on Solutions
• Do not wait for risks to rise to the level of CAPs and/or result in death or major injury before taking action.

VISION . ZERO
RTO O&NEA' COALITION

bit, ly/ RTDVisionZeroDocs

Vision Zero Plan: Recommendations

~
Rf<C'Ot,'ENM.TIOHSfOII.V1$1~ZUOl'l»fHING

• 40+ action items the agency could take to advance Vision
Zero, either separately or in its own plan

bllS..IN-,aGrn~,

•

~~11kts.atNl;f,.•rkkW-IIIMlt.1~uMhM11Didlf'dy
and~
~"_,.,."""CQ-l'litts~lilll"••o.-.....a

IUl'lll\4..-dtt.

• Recs are in the Report submitted to the Board and can be

-~s....~.->db:>-,q ...

~~--

~«.11a,15.(/ltn~YiolUIVaMheos.-

""walSbit.-.dCMar-Sbftb.~J
•

l n , p k n o n , t ~ - - , . . , . ~ ~----Q,1111'

.• . . . . . - i a ~ I O ~

found at bit.ly/ RTDVisionZeroDocs

• ~for~ltly~wldllof.oil-ntdlt,ilk:tn;Calbboflte
""~~••~u~.pn;,mt,:cltir.,~an:1

ulll!inno ~ - ~ ~ - -

• Does not take the place of community engagement that

-nfllloffl,Calwibirb_..,od1"<~

• I~

~m<TNct--'-,~~~-~

RTD needs to do (but it can be seen as a "running head

--

• UPlll"*""~"°P•nnoulKtmffln.(ASAs}ltmplemtn.cN",hiohq...i,ty...,._e~ind~--"'..._'""""1ts:~~
augHforitftc:,rDr,ttd~-

start")

kCfli:r-.... .. - - . . c , w o e , . a n d ~
- :. .

•

~,n[cd,<lt..ii

,I(

tlJ

~SOP!.lwlqal~~ONbt.~CIP"'«nQ

pufd,,ra(SOF't)fordtft-.t~~-Rm .. ~
p r ~ ~ - i ~.

• Su~~OOW.-p.-1~:~~

de-sq,,nddNo~.-:,- . . . : 1 - . . . ~ 1 , o ~ ,...
_.,.-~~ll'IOet'MDOd~.

VISION ZERO
ATO OEN\IER COAllTION

Recommendations - Examples - Rail Safety
• Address conflicts at intersections between light rail trains and turning vehicles
• Analyze data and identify solutions, prioritizing known high-risk areas like Stout Street and Welton
Corridor.

• Implement safety countermeasures for pedestrians in the right-of-way
• Install mini-gate arms, flashing lights, and pavement markings at prioritized crossings to enhance
pedestrian visibility and protection.

• Invest in smart(er) technology (including seeking funding)
• Assess the feasibility and effectiveness of using UDAR/RADAR, AI, or other technology at high-accident
grade crossings, considering both general safety and suicide prevention implications.

Recommendations - Examples - Communications
• Invest in essential upgrades
• Upgrading automated announcements, ensuring mul ilingual signage and information,
standardizing pedestrian crossings, and conducting a comprehensive ADA review will
contribute to enhancing communication and accessibility for all riders.

• Develop SOPs for Equitable Access
• Create standardized operating procedures (SOPs) for clear and consistent communication
across all stations, promoting equity and inclusivity

Recommendations - Examples - Planning
• Address local infrastructure gaps by partnering with municipalities.
• Improve pedestrian access to stations (particularly in areas adjacent to Peoria Station) - as
well as station design itself - focusing on sidewalk connections, lighting, and signage .

• Adopt DRCOG Vision Zero Guidelines, i.e.:
• For signalized intersections, place stops at the far side.
• For non-signalized intersections, place bus stops and pedestrian crossings in close proximity
Ceo-locate') to allow people riding transit to cross the street safely

• Create a fund for bus stoP. & pedestrian improvements, focusing on equity

Questions?
"Underlying the Vision Zero strategy is the Safe System - a holistic safety approach that shifts

responsibility from the people using roads to the people designing them, integrating core management an d
action areas to create a safe mobility system forgiving of human error. The structure of an effective Vision

Zero strategy embodies the Safe System approach."
71N.1TI !;@MI $C<CQJIB@

visionzerochallenge.org

Thank you.

rtd-denver.com

June 2024

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

Director JoyAnn Ruscha, joyann.ruscha@rtd-denver.com
Director Ian Harwick, ian.harwick@rtd-denver.com

VI SIO

!ERO

RTD DENVER COALITION

WHY CONVENE A VISION ZERO STAKEHOLDER GROUP?

Statement of Purpose (Adopted by the Coalition in September 2023)
Vision Zero community advocates have long pointed out that public transportation is an
essential tool in achieving zero deaths and serious injuries on our streets. According to
VZN, "[c]ities with public transit systems keep cars off the road by providing options to
get around. This is especially helpful for those considered high-risk drivers, including
very new drivers, older drivers and impaired drivers. This translates to safer conditions
for all road users, even those who are not riding public transit, as their risk of being
injured by another driver is reduced when more people use transit."
Moreover, according to an analysis by the American Public Transportation Association
(APTA), traffic fatality rates can decrease by 10%-40% when we prioritize transit and
accessible, pedestrian-friendly infrastructure. 1
As Vision Zero community advocates, transit riders, and Regional Transportation District
(RTD) directors who are passionate about equitable transportation and safe streets, we
formed the RTD Vision Zero Coalition.
We believe every jurisdiction that is part of our transportation network has a duty to
help end preventable traffic crashes. We believe that RTD-Colorado's largest

regional transportation agency-has a responsibility to incorporate

1 "Public Transit Is Key Strategy in Advancing Vision Zero, Eliminating Traffic Fatalities," American

Public Transit Association. August 2018. PDF link

1

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

comprehensive Vision Zero strategies, principles, and policies in every area of
planning and implementation.
Through a series of workshops and small-group meetings from fall 2023 to spring 2024,
the Coalition will create a Vision Zero framework for the consideration of

adoption by the RTD Board of Directors and the General Manager and CEO.
''Investing in transit is investing in Vision Zero. It is an investment in saving lives. "
STAKEHOLDER WORK

Statement of Work (Adopted by the Coalition in Odober 2023)
•

Collaborate and draft concrete recommendations for adoption by RTD that would
meaningfully advance the goal of Vision Zero
Draft completed 2/6/24 and sent to RTD 2/15; Survey Results & Final Report due early July

•

Draft Vision Zero resolution/s for the consideration of the Board of Directors,
which is the policy-setting body of RTD
Discussion Item Before Safety, Security, and Operations Committee on 6/12/24; Action Item
scheduled for July following additional outreach

Over 36 participants joined an intensive stakeholder process. The Coalition met as a
whole nine times between October 10th and January 30th, with other individual
stakeholder meetings held as necessary. Over 60 hours of meetings were logged prior
to submitting preliminary recommendations to RTD in February.

Participants
•

Director JoyAnn Ruscha, District B

•

Denver Bicycle Lobby

•

Director Ian Harwick, District L

•

Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition

•

Director Michael Guzman, District C

•

Greater Denver Transit

•

Director Jaime Lewis, District A

•

RTD Riders Alliance

•

Denver Streets Partnership

•

ATU Local 1001

•

Pedestrian Dignity

•

Independent riders
2

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

Visiting Subject Matter Experts
In addition to reading existing research materials and looking into local crash and
incident data, the Coalition also liaised with Denver Department of Transportation and
Infrastructure and DRCOG for additional subject matter expertise in planning.
Additionally, Stuart Summers & Betsy Morrison served as agency liaisons from RTD.

Working Groups
In addition to meeting as a whole, the Coalition had two breakout policy groups.

•

Track 1 - Pedestrian Dignity & Multimodal Infrastructure: Bus stop
access for people walking, rolling or cycling (including ADA, location, and
amenities); pedestrian & bicycle infrastructure within a one-mile radius including sidewalks/rollways, curb cuts/ramps and pedestrian signals; reducing
car trips (modal shift), TOD, etc.

•

Track 2 - Rail & Bus Safety: Rail stations, transit facility, Park-n-Ride and
maintenance facility site design, preventing rail deaths and injuries (including
death by suicide), operator training and support, accident/ incident reporting,
regulatory oversight, track worker safety, etc.

DRAFTING GUIDELINES {Adopted by the Coalition in October 2023)

Recommendations must have a meaningful relationship to Vision Zero and
relate to Vision Zero Network principles.

•

It is never ethically acceptable that people are killed or seriously injured when
moving within the road transport system (this includes public transit)

•

Rather than placing the blame of an imperfect system on individuals, the
Coalition will shift the focus towards a systemic approach, emphasizing human
dignity and safe streets
3

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

•

June 2024

Our ideas will not be limited by anticipated costs - there's no price on a human
life

Recommendations are created through an intersectional lens.
•

We center disability access, language justice, and racial justice

•

The transit workforce is at the forefront of our efforts to end traffic violence and
is a key partner in all Vision Zero planning

Recommendations are ethics-based, but still actionable by RTD.
•

Recognizes that RTD is also a systems designer and thus a responsible agency
for traffic safety

•

Offers solutions that can be implemented by RTD (or under joint jurisdiction)

•

Compels both infrastructure and systems to prevent incidents that cause harm

•

Validates that most people who use transit begin their journey as pedestrians

•

Provides dignified solutions for all people who interact with the transit system

•

Fosters an open and transparent safety culture that emphasizes innovation over
compliance monitoring

•

Respects the role of the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee (JLMSC)

4

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

RT D's Actionable Vision Zero Plan:
.A Clear Path to Safer Public Transit & Safer Streets for All
(Adopted 2/6/24 and revised for clarity on 2/28/24 and 6/10/24)

CREATE A VISION ZERO COMMUNITY (Board Action)

Make a Public Commitment to Vision Zero
•

Lead the nation and hire a dedicated leader to spearhead plan development,
implementation, and continuous improvement.

Develop a Comprehensive Vision Zero Plan - with KPis
•

Include the community and the BoD - with riders who are most impacted at the
forefront.
o

•

Establish clear leadership roles, governance structures, and performance metrics
aligned with RTD's Strategic Plan. Incorporate Vision Zero into fiscal policy and
budget planning.
o

•

In planning and decision-making, RTD should center disability access,
language justice, and racial justice.

Regularly communicate with the Board and public on goals - including
progress and challenges.

Key Benchmark: Obtain recognition from the Vision Zero Network as a

Vision Zero Community
INCORPORATE A SYSTEMS APPROACH TO SAFETY CULTURE & STRATEGIC PLANNING

Integrate Vision Zero into all Aspects of RTD
•

Foster a safety-first culture where employees feel empowered to report issues,
learn from mistakes, and actively contribute to safety improvements.

•

Don't place blame on staff or the public - embrace smarter design, transparency,
and systems redundancy instead
o

•

"Human error" is usually a causal factor - not the root cause.

Challenge everyone by asking, "What can I/we/you do to save lives?"

Proactively Collect Data, Identify the Risks, & Work on Solutions
•

Do not wait for risks to rise to the level of CAPs and/or result in death or major
injury before taking action.
5

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

RECCOMENDATIONS FOR VISION ZERO PLANNING

Rail Safety & Grade Crossings
•

Conduct a comprehensive analysis for immediate action: Identify all atgrade crossings and prioritize the top 20% with highest incident/accident rates
and identify measures to mitigate, reduce, or eliminate risks.

•

Address conflicts at high-risk intersections: Analyze crash data to identify
and eliminate likely causes of intersection conflicts between light rail trains and
turning vehicles, prioritizing high-risk areas like Stout Street and focusing on
signaling, including the use of blank-out signs. (More than 1/3 of LRV crashes are
on or at Stout and California Streets. 2)

•

Implement safety countermeasures for pedestrians: Install mini-gate
arms, flashing lights, and pavement markings at prioritized crossings to enhance
pedestrian visibility and protection.

•

Advocate for safety improvements with local municipalities: Collaborate
on infrastructure improvements like raised crosswalks, protected turn lanes, and
signal timing adjustments at high-risk intersections.

Enhanced Communication and Accessibility
•

Improve wayfinding across modes: Collaborate with other transportation
providers to create seamless, multi-modal wayfinding signage and information
systems.

•

Upgrade automated stop announcements (ASAs): Implement clear, highquality voice recordings and integrate special announcements like elevator
outages for improved passenger awareness.

•

Language Access: Ensure all announcements, signage, and wayfinding
information are available in English and Spanish at minimum, with plans to
expand to additional languages as needed.

•

Develop SOPs for Equitable Access: Create standardized operating
procedures (SOPs) for clear and consistent communication across all stations,
promoting equity and inclusivity.

•

Standardize pedestrian crossings and signage: Implement consistent
design and clear messaging across all stations, adhering to commuter rail
standards and utilizing universally understood symbols.

2

We defined "crashes" as a Light rail vehicle making contact with an automobile or pedestrian,
surveying RTD data from 2017-2023

6

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

•

MUTCD: Ensure that all signage is MUTCD-compliant where applicable.

•

ADA: Conduct an internal ADA review and empower our advisory committees in
decision-making; have joint advisory meetings with O&S

First / Last Mile & Modal Shift
•

Partner with Lyft: Implement a first/last-mile program offering discounted Lyft
rides to connect passengers to and from RTD stations, encouraging modal shift.
(Subject to ADA compliance.)

•

Park-n-Rides: Update all Park-n-Ride designs to incorporate "kiss n ride" ( drop
off) areas; eliminate parking minimums or standards

•

Bike-friendly: Create minimum bike storage standards

TOD & Land Use
•

Evaluate all PnRs and assess for TOD use: Encourage development on
unused lots/land; consider a pilot for free parking at certain PnRs like CDOT (to
encourage carpool)

•

Housing: Lobby the legislature to permit RTD to sell or lease land for less than
its assessed value for affordable housing developers; update current TOD policy
to encourage sale of RTD land for the purpose of dense, walkable housing
development

Accessible & Safe Pedestrian Routes
•

Address local infrastructure gaps: Partner with municipalities to improve
pedestrian access to stations (particularly in areas adjacent to Peoria Station) as well as station design itself - focusing on sidewalk connections, lighting, and
signage. Use data-driven insights for targeted interventions.

•

Adopt DRCOG Vision Zero Guidelines, i.e.:

•

o

For signalized intersections, place stops at the far side. (Far-side bus stops
are located after an intersection, allowing the vehicle to pass through the
intersection before stopping for the passenger loading and unloading a
bus.)

o

For non-signalized intersections, place bus stops and pedestrian crossings
in close proximity Ceo-locate') to allow people riding transit to cross the
street safely

Bus stop study: Include ADA considerations, lighting, and adjacent
infrastructure in RTD's bus stop amenities study

7

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

•

June 2024

Create a special fund for bus stop & pedestrian access improvements,
focusing on equity

Streamlined Information Access and Reporting
•

Reduce clicks/steps: Design user-friendly online and digital display interfaces
for easy access to safety information, real-time updates, and service alerts.

•

Maximize digital displays: Utilize digital displays effectively to communicate
real-time safety information, wayfinding instructions, and mental health
resources in multiple languages.

•

Establish a safety reporting platform: Implement a user-friendly platform
dedicated to reporting safety and maintenance concerns (i.e., risks of
slips/trips/falls) separate from Transit Watch - and ensure timely responses.

Culture of Safety and Employee Well-being
•

Implement (or emphasize) whistleblower protections: Foster a culture of
safety and open communication by protecting employees who report potential
hazards or safety concerns.

•

Create a mistake-learning mechanism: Establish safe spaces for employees
to discuss mistakes, share lessons learned, and contribute to continuous safety
improvement processes.

•

Labor: Empower represented employees - both in the JLMSC and in practice

Mental Health Support, Training, & Suicide Prevention
•

Data-driven interventions: Evaluate suicide-by-rail data for patterns and
implement countermeasures accordingly

•

Invest in smart(er) technology: Assess the feasibility and effectiveness of
using LIDAR/RADAR, AI, or other technology at high-accident grade crossings,
considering both general safety and suicide prevention implications.

•

Partner with mental health experts: Collaborate with mental health
professionals to review policies, procedures, and training materials and ensure
they are comprehensive and effective.

•

Evaluate and enhance existing resources: Assess the effectiveness of
existing mental health information materials (small cards) and implement
improvements based on feedback and best practices.

•

System-wide mental health information: Strategically place mental health
information and resources across the entire RTD system, leveraging existing
advertising space and digital displays.

8

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

June 2024

•

Expand and standardize training: Ensure all RTD staff and contractors
receive consistent and comprehensive mental health training, including suicide
prevention and crisis intervention techniques.

•

Employee support and feedback: Regularly assess staff perceptions of RTD's
response protocols to mental health incidents and offer opportunities for
feedback and improvement.

•

Learn from best practices: Actively seek out and implement successful mental
health support and training programs from other transit agencies and rail
operators.

Additional Notes
•

Explore partnerships with organizations like STAR/24-hour aid center and RTD's
mental health outreach staff to provide additional mental health support

•

Further investigate the feasibility of installing camera and LIDAR/RADAR
technology on the front of LR

•

Identify funding sources to advance Vision Zero (and pursue aggressively)

•

To increase modal shift, RTD should set benchmarks and KPis to reduce barriers
to transit access (e.g., make it easier to buy a pass, enroll in LiVE, etc.)

ADDmONAL RESOURCES

Vision Zero in Colorado
•

COOT Launches Moving Towards Zero Deaths via CDOT

•

DRCOG Regional Vision Zero

•

DRCOG Taking Action on Vision Zero Guide (pdf)

•

Vision Zero at Denver Streets Partnership

•

Boulder Vision Zero Action Plan

•

City & County of Denver Vision Zero

Vision Zero Planning
•

Resource Libra ry via Vision Zero Network

9

Preliminary Report to the RTD Board of Directors

•

June 2024

Harnessing Public Health Princi ples for Vision Zero: Near and Long-Term
Strategies via Vision Zero Network

•

What is a Safe Systems Approach? via USDOT

Safety Culture & Worker Safety in Transportation
•

Safety Culture via US Federal Highway Administration

•

Safety Culture via European Union Agency for Railways

•

Working Together to Keep Railroad Workers Safe via US Dept of Labor

•

Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: Rail Transit Roadway Worker Protection via FTA
(pdf presentation)

Other
•

Cities With Higher Public Transit Use Can Cut Their Road Traffic Death Rate in
Half via APTA at Politico

•

How a Public Health Approach to Road Safety Could Save Lives via Governing
Magazine

10

~ \P"""'_

-'t;

.;§,

Policy Development and Research

'

::::: APTA ·= AMERICAN
#"~

.~~

PIJ!ltlC

TRANSPORTATION
ASSOCIATION

AUGUST 2018

Public Transit Is Key Strategy in Advancing Vision
Zero, Eliminating Traffic Fatalities
As the movement toward Vision Zero grows -with more than 30 U.S. communities I committing to the goal of
zero traffic deaths - public transit is increasingly recognized as a core strategy to support safe mobility for all.
Public transportation is one of the safest ways to travel. It is ten times safer per mile than traveling by car because
it has less than a tenth the per-mile traffic casualty (injury or death) rate as automobile travel.2

NEW ANALYSIS SHOWS LINK BETWEEN PUBLIC TRANSIT & SAFETY
APTA Policy analysis of recent National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) 3 and Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) 4 data shows that metro areas with higher public transportation use have lower traffic
fatality rates. Those metro areas with more than 40 annual transit trips per capita have around half the traffic
fatality rate of metro areas with fewer than 20 transit trips per capita.

Metro Areas with More Public Transit Use Have Lower Traffic Fatality Rates
(Metro Areas Over 500,000 Population, 2016)
V)

25

.Jj

40

20

C
(l/

"O

.iii
20
er:

,.

0

0

~ 15

0

M

w
a. 10
Cl)

:-e
]

ro

••

.

LA1"'4111111lll·····•''

V)

.

..

,,,-,;,;1•••······•····
.!!!.
.ii
................................................
.

5

u.
V
<;::

························ ..................... ~

'<-

~

I-

0

0

50

100

150

200

250

Annual Transit Trips per Capita

1

htt ps:i/visionzeronetwork.orgiresources/vi.sion-zero-cities/

2 https ://www .apta.com/resources/reportsandpubl ications!Documents/ A PTA-Hi dden-Traffic-Safetv-So 1ution-Pub 1ic-Transportation. pdf
3
4

https://www-fars.nhtsa.dot.gov/Main/index.aspx
https ://www. transit.dot. uov/ ntd/ data- product/201 6-annual-database-uza-sums

AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION

PAGE1

ADVANCING VISION ZERO WITH PUBLIC TRANSIT BOOSTS
Vision Zero is a strategy to eliminate all traffic fatalities and severe injuries. Started in Sweden 20 years ago, it has
been adopted by more than 30 communities in the U.S. during the past four years, showing promising early
results. While NHTSA data shows that there were 37,461 traffic fatalities in 2016 - a 5.6 percent increase
over the previous year - in the two longest-running Vision Zero cities, traffic deaths have decreased
significantly. Traffic deaths in New York City are 28% lower and in San Francisco 41 % lower in the four
years since each committed to the Vision Zero approach in 2014. 5
Increased public transportation use helps further Vision Zero goals of reducing traffic fatalities. Research shows
that modest increases in public transit mode share can provide disproportionally larger traffic safety benefits. An
increase from 20 to 40 annual transit trips per capita represents a small change in behavior-simply taking two
more public transit trips per month.
This suggests that typical U.S. urban regions can reduce their traffic fatality rates by making public transit a
higher priority, in conjunction with various support strategies such as pedestrian and bicycling improvements,
commute trip reduction programs, efficient parking management, and transit-oriented development policies. The
largest benefits are likely to be achieved in the most automobile-dependent communities. 6
The relationship between higher public transit use and lower traffic fatalities is especially strong for metro areas
with populations over 2 million. For the 34 metro areas with more than 2 million residents, the statistical
relationship is stronger (R2 of 0.64) than for metro areas between 500,000 and 2 million residents (R2 of 0.28).

Public Transit Travel vs Traffic Fatalities by Metro Area Size (2016)

-

i~ :: l
er:

■

0
0
0

• :,.

;•

8 1s il~
ri

. ...,_

~

~
· \.~ ·

i

':.

...,
ro

•

.~ 10
';'.;

S

i;::

♦♦

Metro Areas Under 2

•• ..
41
ii::•.:,. . ,. ♦

..
■

MIiiion

R' = 0.2813

Metro Areas Over 2
Million
l
0
R = .6356

....___ ■iilf••••·· ·· · ♦... ..,....♦
-■■

♦•

♦

1 ..... ·• ···· .. .. ... ..... ..... ... ......
♦

~

·········• .............. ...................... ..... .

4-

ro
l-

....

o
0

so

100

150

200

250

Annual Transit Trips pe r Capita
.................. ,_ ,.....

5

6

https:/ivisionzeronetwo rk.ornivision-zero-buoyed-b y-pro gress/
b.lms:/iwv..w.apta.com/resources/reportsandpubl ications/Documents/APT A-H idden-Traflic-Safetv-Sol ution-Pub lie-Transportation . pdf

PAGE 2

August 2018

Policy Development and Research

The 11 metro areas with over 40 transit trips per capita have relatively low traffic fatality rates, as seen in the
table below.
Metropolitan Area

Traffic Fatalities Per
100,000 residents

Transit Trips
per Capita

4.148
4.895
4.682
5.382
5.540
6.993
5.761
5.338
6.479
6.933
7.247

218.584
105.338
91.774
84.834
72.877
70.897
66.769
61.793

Average, 11 w/ highest transit use

5.763

83.533

Average, all 108 Metro Areas >500,000

9.958

21.210

New York-Newark-Jersey City, NY-NJ-PA
San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA
Boston-Cam bridge-Newton, MA-NH
Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, DC-VA-MD-WV
Urban Honolulu, HI
Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE-MD
Chicago-Naperville-Elgin, IL-IN-WI
Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA
Portland-Vancouver-Hillsboro, OR-WA
Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA
Baltimore-Columbia-Towson, MD

58.295

45.794
41.910

WHO BENEFITS FROM SAFETY IMPACTS OF PUBLIC TRANSIT?
Public transportation investment and supportive policies increase traffic safety in several ways, including:
•
•
•
•
•

Factors that increase public transit use, like compact development and good walking and bicycling
connections, tend to decrease traffic fatalities.
Travelers who shift from automobile to public transit directly reduce their crash risk
High risk groups like young drivers, seniors, alcohol drinkers, and compulsive texters, are more likely to
reduce their driving if alternatives like public transit are convenient.
Less total vehicle travel leads to community-wide crash reductions.,
Lower and safer traffic speeds make it safer for public transit users to get to their stop or station.

Since most casualty crashes involve multiple vehicles, even
responsible drivers who always observe traffic laws and never use
public transit benefit from public transportation improvements
that help reduce higher-risk driving, and therefore their risk of
being the victim of other drivers' mistakes. Public transportation
modes that serve longer trips can help reduce total vehicle travel

Traveling by commuter and
intercity rail is 18 times safer for
passengers (measuring fatalities)
than traveling by auto.

and provide safety benefits to users. Traveling by commuter and
intercity rail is 18 times safer for passengers (measuring fatalities) than traveling by auto.
High-risk groups -- including young drivers, seniors, alcohol drinkers, and compulsive texters -- are more likely
to reduce their driving if alternatives like public transit are convenient and attractive. This is significant, given
that motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death for U.S. teenagers, according to the CDC, and "the risk
of motor vehicle crashes is higher among 16-19-year-olds than among any other age group." 7 The CDC also says

7

https://ww"W.cdc.eov/motorvehiclesafetv/teen drivers/teendrivers factsheet.html
PAGE3

August 2018

Policy Development and Research

that for seniors, the risk of being injured or killed in a motor vehicle crash increases with age. 8 In addition, about
one in three traffic deaths in the United States involves a drunk driver. 9 Fatalities from distracted driving have
risen over the past 6 years, and texting while driving is especially dangerous. 10

MOVING FORWARD
Given that traditional traffic safety programs generally overlook public transportation as a potential safety
strategy, the new and transformative approach of Vision Zero offers a prime opportunity to promote and expand
the use of public transportation as a proven effective tool to help move our communities toward zero deaths and
injuries on our roadways.
This analysis is based on the methods used in the APTA publication The Hidden Tra ffic Sa(et11 Solution: Public

Trans portation. APTA is pleased to partner with the Vision Zero Network to share promising strategies for
greater coordination and cooperation between transit professionals, Vision Zero proponents, and others
interested in safe mobility for all. For more information, go to www.a pta.com/safetv.

8

htt ps://www.cdc. gov/motorvehiclesafetyiolder adult drivers/index.html
driving/states.html
10
https://www.cdc.gov/motorvehiclesafoty/Distracted Driving/index.html

9 https://www.cdc.gov/motorvehiclesafetv!impaired

PAGE4

August 2018

Policy Development and Research

Acknowledgements

VISIO~◄ =I ~{•~ETWORK
visionzeronetwork.org

Authors

For General Information

Matthew Dickens
APTA Senior Policy Analyst
Policy Development and Research
202.496.4817 I mdickens@apta.com

APTA Policy Development and Research
Darnell Grisby, Director
202.496.4887 I dgrisby@apta.com
www .apta.com/resources/

LeahShaum
Founder and CEO
Vision Zero Network
leah@visionzeronetwork.org

The APT A Policy Department
Art Guzzetti, Vice President-Policy
202.496.4814 I aguzzetti@apta.com

The American Public Transportation Association (APTA)
Paul P. Skoutelas, President and CEO
The American Public Transportation A.;sociation {APTA) is a nonprofit international association of 1,500 public
and private sector organization which represent a $68 billion industry that directly employs 420,000 people and
supports millions of private sector jobs. APT A members are engaged in the areas of bus, paratransit, light rail,
commuter rail, subways, waterbonw services, and intercity and high-speed passenger rail. This includes: transit
systems; planning, design, construction, and finance firms; product and service providers; academic
institutions; transit associations and state departments of transportation. APTA is the only association in North
America that represents all modes of public transportation. APTA members serve the public interest by
providing safe, efficient and economical transit services and products.

APTA Vision Statement
APTA is the leading force in advancing public transportation.

-

......
••• • ••
......

CORE ELEMENTS
FOR VISION ZERO COMMUNITIES

INTRODUCTION
Vision Zero - the strategy to eliminate traffic
fatalities and severe injuries - is being adopted by
a growing number of communities across North
America and beyond. While safe mobility is not a
new concept, Vision Zero requires a shift in how
communities approach decisions, actions, and
attitudes around safe mobility.

,,.
t
0
-en
>
~

A fundamental part of this shift is moving from a
traditional approach to a Safe Systems approach
toward traffic safety. A traditional approach accepts
that a certain number of traffic deaths and severe
injuries will occur as unavoidable consequences
of mobility and focuses on changing individual
behavior to reduce the frequency of these incidents.
In contrast, Vision Zero is built on the basis that
traffic deaths and severe injuries are preventable.
Vision Zero emphasizes a Safe Systems approach,
which acknowledges that people make mistakes,
and focuses on influencing system-wide practices,
policies, and designs to lessen the severity of
crashes.

Approaching the issue of safe mobility in a new
way can be challenging, even when everyone
agrees on the ultimate goal - in this case, safety
for all road users. One limitation to the success
and proliferation of Vision Zero in this moment
is the lack of a unifying definition and "best
practice benchmark." While an increasing number
of jurisdictions may call themselves Vision
Zero communities, the authentic and ongoing
commitment to the fundamental shift in safety
perspective can be uneven.

The Vision Zero Network, with support from
partners, developed this set of Vision Zero Core
Elements to help communities set priorities,
work toward tangible results in promoting safety,
and benchmark their progress relative to best
practices. This resource encourages leaders to
focus on the most impactful actions and helps
hold them accountable to their Vision Zero
commitments.

TRADITIONAL APPROACH

VISION ZERO

Traffic deaths are INEVITABLE

Traffic deaths are PREVENTABLE

PERFECT human behavior

Integrate HUMAN FAILING in approach

Prevent COLLISIONS

vs

Prevent FATALAND SEVERE CRASHES

INDIVIDUAL responsibility

SYSTEMS approach

Saving lives is EXPENSIVE

Saving lives is NOT EXPENSIVE

coRE ELEMENTS FOR VISION llR

c o -~uNmES I 1

Leadership and Commitment
-::

1. Public, High-Level, and Ongoing Commitment.
The Mayor and key elected officials and leaders within public agencies,
including transportation , public health, and police, commit to a goal
of eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries within a specific
timeframe. Leadership across these agencies consistently engages in
prioritizing safety via a collaborative working group and other resourcesharing efforts.
·-

-

I

2. Authentic Engagement. Meaningful and accessible community
engagement toward Vision Zero strategy and implementation is
employed, with a focus on equity.

Equity and Engagement
Elevating equity and meaningful
community enga.gement,
particularty in low•inc-0me
communities and communities of
color, should be a priority in all
stages of Vision Zero work.

3. Strategic Planning. A Vision Zero Action Plan is developed, approved, and used to guide work. The Plan
includes explicit goal s and measurable strategies with clear timelines, and it identifies responsible stakeholders.
4. Project Delivery. Decision-makers and system designers advance projects and policies for safe, equitable multimodal travel by securing funding and implementing projects, prioritizing roadways with the most pressing safety issues.

- Safe Roadways and Safe Speeds
5. Complete Streets for All. Complete Streets concepts are integrated into communitywide plans and
implemented through projects to encourage a safe, well-connected transportation network for people using all
modes of transportation. This prioritizes safe travel of people over expeditiou s travel of motor vehicles.
6. Context-Appropriate Speeds. Travel speeds are set and managed to achieve safe conditions for the
specific roadway context and to protect all roadway users, particularly those most at risk in crashes. Proven
speed management policies and practices are prioritized to reach this goal.

Data-driven Approach, Transparency, and Accountability
7. Equity-Focused Analysis and Programs. Commitment is made to an equitable approach and outcomes,
including prioritizing engagement and investments in traditionally under-served communities and adopting
equitable traffic enforcement practices.
8. Proactive, Systemic Planning. A proactive, systems-based approach to safety is used to identify and
address top risk factors and mitigate potential crashes and crash severity.
9. Responsive, Hot Spot Planning. A map of the community's fatal and serious injury crash locations is
developed, regularly updated, and used to guide priority actions and funding.
10. Comprehensive Evaluation and Adjustments. Routine evaluation of the performance of all safety
interventions is made public and shared with decision makers to inform priorities, budgets, and updates to the Vision
Zero Action Plan.
Read on for more information about implementing these Vision Zero Core Elements in your community.
~

f

mi:s I 2

LEADERSHIP AND COMMITMENT
1. Public, High-Level, and Ongoing Commitment. The Mayor and key elected officials and
leaders within public agencies, including transportation, public health, and police, commit to a
goal of eliminating traffic fatalities and serious injuries within a specific timeframe.
• Leadership across these agencies consistently prioritizes safety via a collaborative working group
and other resource-sharing efforts
High-level leadership and sustained political commitment
are essential to Vision Zero success. The Mayor and
other key elected officials must set the tone and
direction for Vision Zero and back up their words of
commitment with action, reflected in spending decisions,
policies, and practices that prioritize safety (even when
this means a shift from the status quo). Following
from this, the leaders of the public health, police, and
transportation agencies should be closely involved
with the day-to-day work of Vision Zero and ensure
consistent interagency coordination. In short, a Vision
Zero commitment is only as strong as it is demonstrated
in the @~ons of the city's leadership @~~t@ff.
Setting an explicit timeline for Vision Zero is part of this
core element because it underscores the urgency of
the issue, provides measurability, and incorporates the
fundamental Safe Systems principle that these traffic
tragedies are preventable.

2. Authentic Engagement. Meaningful and accessible community engagement toward
Vision Zero strategy and implementation is employed, with a focus on equity.
• Engage the community in meaningful, culturally-relevant ways and support involvement by
respected community leaders
• Prioritize support of communities most impacted by traffic crashes and most traditionally
underserved by safety efforts
Vision Zero efforts should meaningfully engage the
community and prioritize equitable processes and
outcomes. This is especially true in neighborhoods that
often bear the brunt of high-injury streets and where
community members may be grappling with the results
of historic underinvestment in safe mobility, as well as
a multitude of other, interrelated systemic inequities.
Community input should be valued and incorporated into
Vision Zero planning and implementation.

» Collaborating with community members who

This includes:

)) Recognizing that coordination is work, for which
community groups deserve compensation to
support time commitment, expertise, and long-term
engagement. .Addtional resources are included in

» Engaging sincerely and with cultural competence,
recognizing and respecting the history, culture, and
expertise of local communities.

are genuinely engaged in neighborhoods and who have
strong connections with and respect of locals. These
community leaders are likely to convey the experiences,
hopes, and concerns of long-time residents in ways that
traditional planning processes have not.
)) Using this collaboration to inform project design
and implementation, not just as a "listening exercise".

Vision Zero E_guitv Strategies.
.O EE E

3. Strategic Planning. A Vision Zero Action Plan i,s developed, approved, and used to guide work.
The Plan includes explicit goals and measurable strategies with clear timelines, and it identifies
responsible stakeholders.
• The Action Plan and corresponding strategies are built on the Safe Systems approach by designing and
maintaining a transportation system where human error does not result m loss of life or severe injury
• Leadership across these agencies consistently prioritizes safety via a collaborative working group
and other resource-sharing efforts

The core element for leadership and commitment
recognizes that Vision Zero - starting with t he
Action Plan - is built on the Safe Systems approach,
which recognizes that people will make mistakes and
that it is the responsibility of system designers and
policymakers to set practices and policies to lessen
the severity of inevitable crashes.
The Action Plan should include an explicit
commitment and related actions to prevent

Vision Zero efforts from resulting in unintended
consequences, such as racial profiling or inequitable
treatment of communities of color.
Clear ownership of Action Plan strategies is important
to achieving accountability and trust for Vision Zero's
principles and outcomes. More about actionable
strategies that have led to Vision Zero success in
other cities are included in the Vision Zero Action
Plan Guidelines.

4. Project Delivery. Decision-makers and system designers advance projects and policies for safe,
equitable multi-modal travel by securing funding and implementing projects, prioritizing roadways with
the most pressing safety issues.
• Decision-makers provide leadership on policy reforms needed to prioritize safety
• System designers are supported by city leaders to advance safety projects
• System designers and decision-makers advance crosscutting measures to reduce car dependence,
improve transit, and support safe walking and biking

Vision Zero requires more than incremental, individual
behavior change. It requires political backbone to
advance projects and policies that are proven to
improve safety - particularly redesigning roadways
and managing speeds - even in the face of opposition
to change (e.g., removing parking spaces or reducing
speeds for safety benefits).
Moving past the business-as-usual approach also
means evolving beyond the cars-first attitude that has
dominated transportation policies and practices in the
past half-century. Research shows that encouraging
multi-modal transportation reduces Vehicle Miles
Traveled and Vehicles per Capita, the two strongest
predictors of traffic fatalities. Cities serious about
Vision Zero and livable communities are working to
increase the proportion of non-auto trips by improving
and incentivizing public transit, walking, bicycling, and
rides haring.

Increased Cycling
('

and Waldng

Safer, Healthier
Environment for All

Reduced Vehicle
Travel

't' - .Reduced
Emissions i i
and Air Polution
~

&
Fewer Crashes
and fatalities

This will take a carrot-and-stick approach: investing in
strong public transit systems and safe, interconnected
bicycling and walking networks; while disincentivizing
single occupancy vehicle trips with such strategies as
congestion pricing and smart parking pricing.

CORE ELEMENTS FOR VlSION ZERO COMMUNITil:S I -4

SAFE ROADWAYS AND SAFE SPEEDS
5. Complete Streets for AH. Complete Streets concepts are integrated into community wide
plans and implemented through projects to encourage a safe, well-connected transportation
network for people using all modes of transportation. This prioritizes safe travel of people over
expeditious travel of motor vehicles.

=

• Multimodal street design and countermeasures prioritize safety over speed
• Safety improvements to roadways are prioritized for people walking and biking and in
historically underserved communities
» Creating Slow 'Zones in areas with high

Prioritizing proven engineering countermeasures and
multimodal street design 1s essential to safety.

volumes of children, seniors. public transit users,
commercial activity, pedestrian/bicycle activity.
Along with lower speeds, self-enforcing traffic
calming measures help mark these areas as
different and thus encourage safe behavior.

Examples include:
» Using safe design measures such as advance

stop or yield lines, high visibility crosswalks. lane
narrowing, pedestrian refuge islands and medians,
and physically separated bikeways. More measures
- and examples from cities that have implemented
them - are described in NACTO design_guides.
the Traffic Safe Best Practices Matrix, and the
FHWA Achieving Multimodal Networks resource.

,..

Work toward Complete Streets should prioritize the
protection of physically vulnerable road users and
investment in historically disadvantaged communities.
Performance measures for Complete Streets should
include consideration of these communities of concern.
Read more on the fundamentals of Complete Sb'eets
elements from the Complete Streets Coalition.

6. Context-Appropriate Speeds. Travel speeds are set and managed to achieve safe conditions
for the specific roadway context and to protect all roadway users, particularly those most at risk in
crashes. Proven speed management policies and practices are prioritized to reach this goal.
• Roadways are designed (or redesigned) to prioritize safety over speed
• Speed limits are lowered where data and community experience show need
• Automated speed enforcement is implemented where needed, with strategies to address
disproportionate impacts on low-income communities

High spee-ds ffl.-".!,,W crashes nm:re like?v and more

and adding self-enforcing traffic calming measures to
encourage safe travel speeds.

likely to be deadly. An effective Vision Zero program must
manage speed in order to reduce severe and fatal traffic
injuries. Efforts to influence individual behavior primarily with
education and enforcement campaigns have fallen short.

>>

Addressing speed requires changing organizational practices
and reforming policies. Existing practices, such as designing
roads for inappropriately high speeds and setting speed
limits too high, often prioritize moving more cars over the
safety of road users.

>>

Vision Zero calls on system designers and policymakers
to better align our systems and policies with goals of safe
speeds, including:

>>

» Measure and analyze the scope of problem related to

Implement automated speed enforcement where
needed, incorporating strategies to measure and address
disproportionate impacts on low-income communities and
others who may be overly burdened.
Raise awareness about speed as a primary factor
in traffic deaths and injuries, similar to increased awareness
about drunk driving.

In many cases, State and Federal agencies influence
speed limits either directly or indirectly. While speed
management efforts may be time-consuming and politically
challenging, it is critical to Vision Zero success. Cities facing
barriers from other levels of government need to make the
policy, legislative, or other changes required to advance
proven speed management strategies.

inappropriate speeds. share this data to raise awareness.
and develop measurable improvement strategies with
timelines for action.
>>

Change policies to align with safety goals, including
setting appropriate speed limits, particularly where motor
vehicle traffic is mixing with those walking and biking.

Implement infrastructure changes to prioritize safety
over speed. Examples include reducing travel lanes
~

EELEME

- , (;l :~

1'lM NfflES I 6

DATA-DRIVEN APPROACH,
TRANSPARENCY, AND ACCOUNTABILITY
7. Equity-Focused Analysis and Programs. Commitment is made to an equitable approach and
outcomes, including prioritizing engagement and investments in traditionally under-served communities
and adopting equitable traffic enforcement practices.
• Explicit commitment and actions prevent Vision Zero efforts from increasing disproportionate
enforcement levels in communities of color
• Any enforcement efforts within Vision Zero are focused on dangerous moving violations, as identified by
quality data analysis
Data and experience reveal that low-income communities and
communities of color carry a disproportionate burden of trafficrelated injuries and fatalities in the U.S. This is not arbitrary; it
reflects patterns of historic under-investment and racial bias
in some communities, particularly black, brown and immigrant
communities, as well as low-income communities. Vision Zero
leaders need to recognize these disparities and to center equity
in their work in clear and measurable ways to prevent traffic
safety efforts from having unintended, harmful consequences.
The realm of traffic enforcement is a particularly timely and
urgent area of attention. It is important that promoters of
Vision Zero acknowledge that officer-initiated traffic stops
allow for higher levels of individual discretion and unintended
gateways to racial bias and even aggressive police action. The
broader Vision Zero community has a role and responsibility in
improving, not exacerbating, these problems.

People Killed While Walking:

~

~l\;!l,.:!Q;~

People Killed While Walking:

Clbli ctf iMtHM-£-3
~~".'!.'~ .Jc_?J;.w

Communities With Sidewalks:

M'1<.n.tli~ ~-~•- -~

Vision Zero focuses on Safe Systems, not more traffic stops.
Cities such as Portland, Oregon are working to prevent overpolicing or racial bias from becoming unintended byproducts of
their Vision Zero efforts. Portland limits enforcement actions in
order to reduce the possibility of racial profiling and disparate
economic impacts. Portland's VISion Zero Action Plan
explicitly excludes increased enforcement by police officers.
It also offers education classes as alternatives to increased
penalties for first time offenders.
Similarly, any enforcement efforts included in Vision Zero
strategies should focus on the most dangerous violations. An
example is San Francisco's ~ o n the Five program, which
commits officers to focus on the five top roadway dangers, such
as speeding and violating pedestrians' right of way, rather than
on "nuisance" issues such as broken taillights or tinted windows.
Other examples of focusing on equity concerns within Vision
Zero efforts include:
» Requiring transparency, including analyzing and sharing data
on how traffic funding is spent and how traffic stops are
conducted and citations issued, including disaggregating stop
and citation data by race.

Chance of Being Stopped and Searched:

~11.!W 'fo~"~ 'flW<'II~ '201'!;

» Encouraging accountability by requiring regular discussions
amongst policymakers and the public to address equity
disparities in efforts and results.
» Requiring equity-based trainings of Vision Zero staff,
including law enforcement officials, and including equity-based
measurements of their efforts.

» Investing in automated speed enforcement's proven safety
effectiveness and lower risk of racial profiling. Efforts should be
made to avoid disproportionate impacts of fines on low-income
communities, such as setting up alternative fee structures.
» Recognizing that we cannot enforce (nor educate) our
way out of today's traffic safety problems, so we need to
better design roadways and manage speeds for safety.
Adcltional resources a-e included in Vision Zero Eq~i~.
Stra~ies.

C01~cLEME

f JK VISION ZERO COMMUNITIES I 6

8. Systemic, Proactive Planning. A proactive, systems-based approach to safety is used to identify
and address top risk factors and mitigate potential crashes and crash severity.
• Data is used to identify trends of problems. which are addressed systematically rather than as
isolated incidents
Vision Zero's Safe Systems approach means
moving from purely rearward crash map reviews
to more forward-facing identification of problem
areas and working to prevent severe crashes before
they happen. This means determining, analyzing, and
addressing the underlying risk factors that influence
dangerous actions: the where, how, and why serious
crashes happen.

For example. based on analysis showing a trend
of left-turn vehicle movements being particularly
dangerous on certain types of streets, New York
City's Department of Transportation is proactively
addressing areas with proven countermeasures,
rather than reacting to each individual problem after
serious crashes occur. More examples of proactive
approaches to addressing top risk factors are shared
in this summa and webinar.

9. Responsive, Hot Spot Planning. A map of the community's fatal and serious injury crash
locations is developed, regularly updated, and used to guide priority actions and funding.
• Top risk factors and locations of serious traffic crashes are identified, mapped, and utilized
• Qualltv data on traffic deaths and serious injuries are posted 1)ubl1cly and updated regularly

The community should develop a High Injury Network (HIN)
derived from quantitative ("hot spot" problem locations) and
qualitative data (based on community input) to inform its
prioritization and implementation.
Recommendations include:
» Identify top risk factors and locations of serious
traffic crashes.
» Include equity-driven data (such as locations of lowincome communities and communities of color) and
commit to prioritizing actions and funding in areas of
overlap with the HIN.
» Include speed as a data layer. A large proportion
of serious crashes occur on roads with higher speed limits
- often arterials and state-owned roads - which require
the aforementioned work on speed.
» Collaborate within and between city agencies.

of physically vulnerable populations and communities
traditionally underserved by traffic safety efforts.
Police-collected data should be supplemented with
information gathered by hospitals and emergency
medical services. Analysis shows that people involved in
traffic crashes who are part of systemically marginalized
communities are less likely to report traffic crashes and
that, when they do, their reports are less likely to be treated
adequately. Increasingly, communities are supplementing
their police crash records with public health data for a fuller
picture, as described ~ -

Data can help identify
disproportionate safety impacts
5%

A

Work to address problems on the HIN is an important
place to involve the Vision Zero Taskforce.
)>

)>

~
42%

Utilize this information and coordination to
prioritize and implement strategies.
Post and regularly update data on traffic deaths and
serious injuries - beyond police reports.

For more information, see this Vision Zero Network case

studv and webinar.
Data analysis and public input should highlight unsafe

~
15%

SO% of Denver's traffic fatalities
occur on Just 5% of their streets

locations, and this should be overlaid with locations

E ELEMENTS FOR VISION ZERO COMMUNfflES I 7

10. Comprehensive Evaluation and Adjustments. Routine evaluation of the performance of all
safety interventions is made public and shared with decision makers to inform priorities, budgets, and
updates to the Vision Zero Action Plan.
• Regular progress reports are produced and shared publicly
• Use of pilot implementation and community feedback shape safety efforts

Monitoring efforts and impacts, updating and sharing
data regularly, and institutionalizing Vision Zero in the
city's systems will help build trust and set expectations
for accountability between key stakeholders.

» Use comparative data to link social and

This includes:

» Use temporary pilot programs or projects to test

» Proactively monitor, evaluate, and share progress,

including regular public progress reports, such as
these from New York City and Seattle.

environmental factors with traffic injury data to
better understand connections and strategies for
improvements.

strategies within shorter timeframes and for less
cost investment.

••

NEXT STEPS

ltl

We share these Core Elements recogn1zing
the urgency of the issue before us: an average
of 100 people lose their lives each day in this
nation in traffic crashes. This loss and suffering
is preventable, and we have a responsibitity to
prevent these tragedies.
We also recognize that resources, time, and
political will are all limited. What we do matters.
Vision Zero is not just a tagline, not even just a
program, but rather a fundamental shift in how
our communities approach the issue of safe
mobility. To make a real difference, it will take a
firm commitment to change.

lmpleme11ting Vision Zero requires 1) leadership
and commitment to safety, 2) implementing
safe roadways and safe speeds, 3) ongoing
transparent use of data, and 4) centering equity
and community engagement throughout.

E
~

.,.

Committing to and meaningfully incorporating
these Core Elements can help Vision Zero
communities prioritize efforts, benchmark
progress, set expectations, and ensure
accountability. Each Core Element is important to
advance the ultimate goal of safe mobility for all.

r.:.!93 ~ ~ t•I'.', ~ 3•Ie-] =I ~ I3~ i ~1
We are honored to support the work of public sector staff and community-based leaders and advocates
around the country to reduce traffic deaths and severe injuries. We appreciate valuable input from many
partners, including Clay Veka, Dana Weissman, Jeff Lindley, Jeff Paniati, Lainie Motamedi; Megan Wier.
Meghan Mitman, Nicole Ferrara. Richard Retting, Stacy Thompson. and Veronica Vanterpool. This report's
primary authors are Jenn Fox and Leah Shahum. Graphic design is by Rachel Krause of Banjo Creative.
•· •.

The Vision Zero Network is a nonprofit project committed to advancing Vision Zero in t_
h e U.S.
We are proud to support the life-saving efforts of the dedicated policymakers; implementers,
and community leaders working toward safe mobility for art.

i,1,u,,,,M:J=1i!AMtmM•M~m,•n.i::,j.j:.1

~:-~1

~

'

~! • ;;

~;:l ri:.;

,!.'
"• I

<.. -

.;:({~-(

1HIS REPORJ WAS RELEASED NOVEMBER 2018

.•
·.;,,.,

\;j}\t~

