Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on April 14, 2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 14, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday April 14, 2009 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Chair Brohl, Vice-Chair Chacon, Director Bagley, Director Busck, Director
Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James, Director
Kemp, Director Martinez, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director
Pulliam, Director Tayer, Director Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Bill Porter, Carolyn Conover, Larry Buter, John
Pung, Susanne Henry, Scott Reed, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay,
Dean Shaklee, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, Dave Genova, Caitlin
Magee, Paula Perdue, John Perry, Daria Serna, Terry Howerter

Others Present:

Bruce Behncke (Veolia), Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
****
Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 6:36 p.m.

Call to Order:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on April 14, 2009
Page 2 of 4
I.

Update on May 2009 Run Board – Bruce Abel gave a brief update on open items from
the May 2009 Service Changes. The continuation of service in Coal Creek Canyon
will be provided by Ride Provide. Director Daly would like the time transfers between
the Route CS and the Route 6X highlighted on future schedules.

II.

Update on August 2009 Run Board – Bruce Abel said that staff anticipates that the
August 2009 service changes will be relatively benign. The Labor agreement and
sales tax figures could change this. Still staff is making a projection of a relatively
small run board change. Staff has heard the Board’s direction loud and clear and is
looking at frequency of service, peak hour service, and spans of service as areas for
possible reductions rather than cutting entire routes.
Director Tayer said he did not believe the Board had made a policy on what direction
staff ought to go but that there had been suggestions and comments.
Mr. Abel said he understood that the Board had not issues a directive but rather a
sentiment.
There was a lengthy discussion about service changes and looking at adjusting
services rather than eliminating services to certain areas.

III.

Access-a-Ride Update - Bruce Abel gave this update and referenced the memo
distributed in the committee packet. Larry Buter gave an update on the mobile data
rollout. By the end of this week, all Special Transit vehicles should be outfitted with
Mobile Data terminals.
Overall, complaints are down. Director Tobiassen asked that since complaints are
down, are there any areas for cost savings? Bruce Abel responded that productivity
is up so that results in cost savings.
A discussion followed on the “unfunded mandate” for paratransit.
Bruce Abel shared that Dean Shaklee has gone through the fleet and replaced the
notifications in the priority seating areas and showed examples of the new signs.

IV.

Contracted Fixed-Route Service Performance Indicators – Bruce Abel referred to the
memo distributed in the Committee packet. The Board receives quarterly reports but
staff does monitor the Contractors on a monthly basis.

V.

Low-Income Pass Pilot Program – Progress – Tony McCaulay gave this update.
Boulder County is in process for signing contract for two locations in Boulder County
there are 85 housing units proposed to start in the program. Staff hopes to have
program up and running by May 2009. In Adams County the District is working with
a new staff person and working on getting a larger number of surveys. City and
County of Denver staff met with them in February and they finally got back to staff
on Friday and are going to survey two locations in Denver.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on April 14, 2009
Page 3 of 4
Director Christopher stated Adams County Housing Authority’s support for this
program.
VI.

Update of Farebox/Smart Card Procurement – The RFP is on the street. Customers
will be able to use one smartcard for both bus and rail. Can we issue smartcards from
a TVM? This is an option that is included in the RFP and staff will evaluate when the
proposals come in.
Director Tayer asked about the software and the option of using this system for
monthly passes.
Director O’Boyle asked when the RFP is due and the response was May 13, 2009 on
the fareboxes and May 26, 2009 for the Smart Cards.

VII.

Use of Circulator Buses to Address Intermittent Needs - Director Brohl brought this
item forward as there are concerns about service needs with the redevelopment of St.
Anthony’s hospital and the upcoming West corridor light rail line. Bill Porter reviewed
the big picture for service development and how in the past small circulator routes
have not been very successful. This issue will be addressed as the opening for the
West Corridor gets closer.

VIII.

RTD Customer Service Survey Results (Bus, Rail, call-n-Ride, and skyRide) – Susanne
Henry presented this item. The full survey results are available for review in the Board
office. Highlights of the presentation include:
 93% of light rail passengers rated the service as good or excellent
 Two-thirds of light rail passengers use the service to commute to work.
 27% of all light rail riders were new riders (riding for less than a year).
 74% of all light rail riders pay their fare with a form of prepayment
 86% of bus riders rated the service as good or excellent.
 62% of bus passengers pay their fare with a form of prepayment
 Bus operator satisfaction is very high.
 71% of call-n-Ride riders rated the service as excellent
 67% of call-n-Ride riders pay their fare with a form of prepayment
 32% of call-n-Ride riders were new riders (riding for less than a year)
 92% of skyRide passengers rated the service as either good or excellent.
 55% of skyRide passengers use the service to commute to work at DIA
 21% of skyRide passengers were new riders (riding for less than a year)
Director Tobiassen asked if the Board might want to consider adding the Customer
Service Satisfaction Survey as part of the District’s goals.
Director Brohl spoke of her concern of re-training light rail riders to learn to ”tap in”
with the smart card before they get on the train. Director Martinez noted that if 74%
of light rail riders use some form of pre payment, this means a potential of 74% of
current riders will need to be re-trained to tap in-this could be problematic.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on April 14, 2009
Page 4 of 4
IX.

Other Matters – Bruce Abel said that the new RTD website will launch next Tuesday,
April 21, 2009.
Director Tobiassen would like an update on the Parking Management program at the
next Operations and Customer Services Committee.

X.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Operations & Customer Services
Committee will be May 12, 2009.

XI.

Motion to adjourn to Executive Session (C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(d)Specialized details
of security arrangements) The Committee adjourned to executive session at 8:18 p.m.

XII.

Adjourn from Executive Session – The Committee adjourned from Executive Session
at 9:15 p.m.

