Oct 24 2019
Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: For the sake of the record, we are now convened at 12:06 PM, Mountain
Daylight Time, on Thursday, October 24, 2018, in the RTD Board conference room at the RTD
headquarters. This is the Executive Committee meeting for the Board.
We have present in person, First Vice Chair, Peggy Cook . And general-PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin. Peggy Catlin.
DOUG TISDALE: Catlin, sorry. I conflate things because I'm trying to save time and so we
have-- but I was stalling so the Second Vice Chair would get here.
We have First Vice Chair, Peggy Catlin. We have a Second Vice Chair, Angie Rivera-Malpiede.
On the telephone, we have our Treasurer, Shelley Cook. And we have our Secretary, Jeff
Walker.
So that identifies the people who are present and on the phone. Is there anyone else on the phone
that I have not listed?
NATALIE MENTEN: Natalie Menten.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Director Menten is now with us on the phone, as well. Thank you,
Director, for acknowledging that.
Anyone else? All right. So we have the record of who is here.
We do have three other matters that we will be discussing today. One of them involves Director
Shontel Lewis.
I invited her to call in and suggested that whenever she is free to call in, being respectful of her
time and her job, that we would take that matter up. So I'm hopeful that she'll speak up when she
gets on the line. And we can do that at that time.
But in any event, for the sake of the record, the first thing that we have on the agenda is the
October Board meeting agenda review. You've been provided with that agenda.
You see it before you. It is a for our Board meeting to be conducted next Tuesday, October 29.
And we have the usual elements of the Board meeting. May I ask our Executive Manager of the
Board, whom I did not acknowledge earlier-- and I apologize-- is Barbara McManus, do you
know that we have someone to perform the pledge?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Not that I know of.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. We'll continue to beat the woods. We can tell them they can come in
costume if they wanted to, and maybe that would be an inducement because it's October 29.
PEGGY CATLIN: Former Director Tina Franco now holds a position with the Boy Scouts. Why
don't I reached out to her to see if she can help us with that on an ongoing basis?
DOUG TISDALE: That would be terrific. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll do that.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's a great idea because I think the Scouts really appreciate the
opportunity. It gives them a chance to show off their engagement and their civic pride. And I
think it would be wonderful.
All right. We have three retirees that will be listed. Do we know whether they will present?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. We can be flexible, of course.
And then we have some special recognitions for bus rodeo, and light rail rodeo, and snowplow
rodeo. And, in addition to that, the Distinguished Budget Presentation Award will be
acknowledged at that time, which is very nice.
Mr. General Manager, relative to the various folks, do we anticipate we'll have them all there, do
you know?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, typically, we'll have a pretty good grouping. But it's rare that all of
them, or most of them even, are able to attend. But we'll probably be fairly well-represented.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thanks. I am informed that we might expect some additional public
participation by virtue of Operators who might wish to appear to address some of the issues that
we discussed this last Tuesday concerning Operator shortage.
And I think that would be fine. It would be great to hear from them directly. But is everyone of
the same opinion that we're likely to see some of that? I mean, have you heard that as well?
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, Mr. Chair, I would expect that we would get a number of public
participation, either from ATU leadership or from Operators, as well, community, as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And the community.
[ROOM AGREEING]

DOUG TISDALE: Yes, and I think the community, as well. But I particularly wanted to note
that I think we're expecting our Operators to be present.
And I think those are important voices that we want to hear. And I want the record to reflect that
we're very eager to hear those voices directly.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I may, I would agree. Given the fact that the perception that may have been
given by the Board's comments on Tuesday night, about reaching out to stakeholders in the
community.
It, perhaps, gave the impression that we were overlooking the Operators themselves, and their
issues. So I think that it's important for us to acknowledge that we want to listen to them.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, and that will be one of the other matters that I'll bring up after we do
the agenda review. Just to give you a heads up, the three matters are the staff information request
from Director Lewis, the discussion of expense policy that we previewed to the Board several
weeks ago, and then, discussion on the Operator shortage and steps forward.
But continue on with the agenda, we show a number of matters of unanimous consent. As I
recall, Director Menten had requested that she be indicated as a no-vote on one of these items,
and that adjusted that item. And the Board consented.
The item then was adjusted from unanimous consent. Is that reflected here in this agenda?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so that item has been moved to recommended action from unanimous
consent. So we want to confirm that to you, Director Menten, that that did get moved down to
the recommended action list.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: You're welcome. And then, we have available at the end of the business
portion of the meeting, an Executive Session for a conference with legal counsel on DTP and
RRP litigation matters for the benefit of the Executive Committee.
And what we will discuss further, at the time of the Executive Session next week, the litigation
ad hoc committee that Vice Chair and I serve on met this week with our General Counsel on
Tuesday, and received a report from him, and asked questions relative to the status of certain
matters.
All of that information will, as promised when we established the ad hoc committee, be shared
with the full Board in the context of that Executive Session next Tuesday.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair, if I might.

DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: We have a portion of our meeting, at the ad hoc committee, that was open.
And I think it would be-- or my suggestion is that we have an agenda item for you to report on
that part of the meeting, or to summarize that, for the whole Board and the public before we go
into Executive Session.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent idea. And if it's agreeable to the Executive
Committee, what we'll ask is that under agenda item number six, committee reports, let's include
the litigation ad hoc committee, since it's a committee report.
And, whereas we ordinarily do not have the committee Chair's report out on that because we
have the benefit of written committee minutes for those committees, but we will have at that time
the opportunity for me and for Vice Chair to supplement however she would choose, a brief
report as to what we discussed in open session in that ad hoc committee.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We could do it that way. Or we could add it to the script where we go
into.
That way it sets the stage for, at the time, at the correct time, for all the public that is there to
know what we're going into Executive Session to speak about. But it's your choice.
DOUG TISDALE: It might set the context better if we did it that way. Vice Chair, how do you
feel?
PEGGY CATLIN: I, personally, do not care where it appears. I just think it ought to be a
standing item. Because we knew there were a number of things that were discussed that were
pretty much open. And I think that-- I don't want to overuse the word transparency, but I think-DOUG TISDALE: No, I think that's good. Perhaps what we can do is just before agenda 15,
Executive Session, and perhaps, even under new business, we can say, report of litigation ad hoc
committee. And then just do that portion of the report that is public.
PEGGY CATLIN: So then will the agenda be revised to reflect that, or will it just be an oral
presentation?
DOUG TISDALE: No, we can revise this.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, that the Board meeting agenda hasn't gone out yet.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK good.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

BARBARA MCMANUS: --today and I can make that change.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just think it would be good to disclose that.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, no, we'll make sure it's publicly stated in the agenda so that people will
have notice that, at that time, prior to the Executive Session, the ad hoc committee will provide a
brief report as to the public session of that meeting.
Any other comments relative to the agenda then, for changes, corrections, clarifications? Hearing
none, may I have a motion to approve the agenda as revised?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion.
JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have a second. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none,
all those in favor anything for saying aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Aye
BARBARA MCMANUS: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none opposed.
That passes unanimously. The agenda as revised, per our discussion here, is approved.
Let me take these in the reverse order of what I described relative to other matters. And then, of
course, we'll have any other matters that any Executive Committee member wants to bring up.
But we have these three that we've actually provided some information to you about.
Relative to the Operator shortage, the one thing that I wanted to make sure we emphasized with
General Manager that I think is critically important-- because we've had a lot of media coverage
and interaction with people following the issuance of the white paper that staff gave us relative to
Operators shortage.
And then, our meeting on Tuesday night, the theme-- and General Manager reported this to me
earlier this week based upon his discussions with the Board members on a one-on-one basis, to
the extent that they could be scheduled part of the meeting on Tuesday-- that there was a strong
desire for outreach, to have public interaction on this.
And the way I would shorthand this, just to emphasize that point-- and I think we all incorporate
the comments here in this record that we made on Tuesday night, and let stand in that record.
The approach, generally speaking, has been for items like this that, essentially, we propose and

then discuss. And I think that, for this one, there is a sentiment of the Board that staff heard, that
we should discuss and then propose.
In other words, rather than going out with here are our thoughts on what we could do concerning
service reductions on a sunsetted basis. That is on a temporary, time-restricted basis. And then
let's get comments from everybody.
That we reverse that process. And we go out for discussion first, and engage with people in that
discussion. And then, following that discussion, present a proposal as to how we might address
Operator shortage.
That's how I synthesize, I think, the discussion from a number of Directors on Tuesday night and
in your one-on-one meetings. Let me ask for comments from the Executive Committee relative
to that specific element first.
And then we can talk about anything else. But I want to focus on that for a moment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could you repeat that?
DOUG TISDALE: Sure. In the past, what we often do, such as with proposed service changes, is
we go out and we propose, and say, here are the service changes we're talking about. Then we
have public hearings on it, and say, so what do you think about these service changes.
So that's what I call propose and then discuss. I suggest that what we've all said is let's reverse
that process. Let's go out and have discussions first.
Let's talk to the stakeholders, whether it be Operators, public, municipalities, counties, other
agencies that interact with us. Discuss with them, and say, OK, you know we have to do
something. What are your thoughts on what we should do?
And then propose something following that. So that's, instead of a propose and then discuss, I'm
suggesting we discuss and then propose.
And I think that's the sentiment of what we were saying. Your thoughts?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, you know, the only-- I like that idea a lot. And I like the
fact that it would be broad scope, so it would be going to the different divisions and talking to
folks.
But I also think we need to engage our lobbyists to help us develop strategies or setting up
meetings with the Governor's office, the Mayor's office. That kind of stuff, I think, would be
really important in showing that we're utilizing all of our resources. And all of the RTD Board
Directors in their districts, since we know our communities, of hosting discussion sessions, as
well.

I think this is going to be a different kind of deal than the traditional kinds of discussions we
have about proposed changes. I think this is a bigger community discussion. That's my feeling.
DOUG TISDALE: I hear you. All right.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think a concern, probably, is timing. And I know that staff was really-- that
this is an urgent matter. But I think that if we don't take the time, that it will end up being-- it'll
blow up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It will blow up. I think so, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: I know that there is some concern about the time. But I think that we need to
invest in it now.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me ask-JEFF WALKER: I agree.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, thank you, Director Walker. We appreciate that.
I mean, I asked for the Treasurer and the Secretary to weigh in. Since the Secretary agrees, any
further comments on that, Mr. Secretary?
JEFF WALKER: Nope, I didn't say anything.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I thought you'd-SHELLEY COOK: That was Jeff, sorry about that. Go ahead, Jeff.
JEFF WALKER: I understand the sentiment of wanting to go out to the public first, and get input
from the public and the Operators. But it kind of seems like time is of the essence while we're-something needs to be done because those folks shouldn't be working six days a week while we
decide what routes are going to be reduced, or what services will be reduced to some capacity,
and for how long.
But I think we have thresholds already. The staff has a process that they use to identify routes
that aren't meeting the thresholds.
I'd rather see something done sooner than later. And our customers will still be surprised when
that bus doesn't show up. And I don't think that's fair to them.
So I think the sooner that staff can identify routes, the better for everybody. We know it's
temporary. We don't know how long that temporary situation will be, but I'd rather see
something in place sooner than later.

So I would rather go out to the public with something, with a proposal, rather than trying to get a
proposal from the public. If this were a programmatic effort, or like a planning document, I could
see that. But I don't think we have the luxury of time to cast a net that wide and far, and for that
long.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. We appreciate-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. What?
SHELLEY COOK: It's hard to raise my hand when I'm on the phone, so I apologize for talking
over you. I agree with the sentiment that, in this case, because of the unusual nature of it, that the
impacts that are likely to be seen, that time spent doing outreach now, it doesn't have to be-I think we could do it pretty quickly, actually. Especially if we engage others as Angie Malpiede,
Rivera-Malpiede, suggested, or just for raising a meeting, or having a quick coffee. I'm not
saying that it's a long, drawn out process.
But my other point is that Family of Services incorporates an assumption about our value of
coverage versus ridership that I don't think we've had a chance to discuss, let alone get out into
the community about. So I don't want to be proposing something based on that, when that really
hadn't been accepted or massaged as a policy. So I really think, I feel strongly that the time we
spend with reaching out, getting input, and in that very mind that we do have issues in finding-- I
think that that will pay off in the long run, in terms of being able to adopt more readily.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Yes, Madam Second Vice Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So, you know, I've been thinking a lot about this. And clearly,
we have routes that are being dropped on a daily basis.
And I'm wondering if those are the same routes that are continuing to be dropped or they're all
different. But if we could, somehow, have the media help us say, today, these are the routes that
will not be running. Just so that we're giving information to the community on a broad base.
So that we're communicating with them. And then saying, we are starting this process-- so that
they know exactly what we're doing, might be helpful. Because that's one of the big issues is that
nobody knows what's happening.
DOUG TISDALE: And, let me go to General Manager first-DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to mention just specifically on the notification.
So the trips that we're missing now, there are not very many on the bus side.

Because we just have a lot greater flexibility on how we can fill trips on the bus side. And that
happens very quickly and very real-time because we don't want to-- we're trying to fill that trip
up until the very last minute, or up until the last 5, 10, 15 minutes.
But on the rail side, what happens with the dropped trips is it depends on who's not there to fill
that work. And so, whoever would have voted that work or assigned that work, if we can't fill it,
then that's the work that gets missed or gets dropped.
And so we're looking at a methodology of, maybe, instead of doing the rider alerts for Light Rail
on a daily basis, of doing them more on a number of days out. I'm not sure yet. Because we're
looking at this conceptually.
Because, actually, last week, early last week some rider alerts went out that were more than for
just one day. And a few of us saw them for first time. Like, Pauletta and me, and I think Dave
Jensen.
We saw for them for the first time and it was kind of like, I don't know if that's a good thing or a
bad thing. But we're thinking that maybe that's a little bit better. If we know a few days in
advance of what that looks like, then we're likely to think about starting to publish that.
We're going to meet on that today and talk about that a little bit more. But I just wanted to
provide a little more context around the trips that aren't happening, what they look like. And then
what we might be able to do from this enhanced communication. At least, more than just as
they're happening, but a day or two ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm wondering if we should put VMS boards at all of these
stations. Because then you can change the information on there.
DAVE GENOVA: We do. So on Light Rail we do have variable message signs.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So is that the one up on top-DAVE GENOVA: At the stations. Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That says-DAVE GENOVA: That scrolls. And they can to a degree do messages from the control center on
there. Whether we can add that much information, let us think about that.
Because I wouldn't want it to be confusing, either. Because sometimes even with the rider alert,
unless a person's very familiar with the schedule, it's like-- because you see these trains that are
not going to make their trip. It's like, OK, well, is that every 15 minutes or every 30 minutes-DOUG TISDALE: Is that the train I usually get at 9:15?

DAVE GENOVA: Or how long do I wait for the next one? Or how do I plan? So we need to
think through that. But I'm taking that to the team and we will-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And my hope is that someday when we get an advertising contract, that we
have much more vibrant display boards that we could use. That people actually put up for us
because they're getting advertising revenue from it. We'd have even better communications.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, to Director Walker's point. Our traditional analysis for run boards
will really result in elimination of bus routes in the outlying areas.
And I think that is a concern that I have. I mean, not that it might not be the end, but I just think a
process is warranted.
And I think Director Cook mentioned something about developing some principles by which we
would consider some of these adjustments. And I support that.
DOUG TISDALE: The comment that-- I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, do you had something to add?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, so you're right. Typically, routes that don't make the run-- I'm sorry, that
don't meet the thresholds boarding per hour, depending on their level of-- or the type of service,
urban, rural, et cetera, or suburban. It's a threshold that would be met.
What my understanding is that the way that they decide which route is-- or which run gets
dropped is based not on that, on a daily basis. But not based on the number of boardings per
hour, but on-- so like, a route that gets four trips an hour, so like to zero.
They were dropped to zero because it had a higher frequency. And they would provide service to
a, I don't know, 401 or a 76-7, if that operator didn't show, if that scheduled operator didn't show
up.
Now imagine that something like that would be implemented for the short-term basis, rather than
the typical four-month cycle run board. So that's all.
Until then, I understand their concern, like I said Tuesday night. I would expect the higher
frequency routes to suffer, to experience some type of loss, rather than the low frequency routes.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. I think to address the point about timing, I agree with the members of
the Executive Committee who have said that we probably can get this done fairly quickly. We're
not talking about trying to set up the same kind of public meeting approach that we do with the
run board changes that we go through three times a year.
But rather, having, because it's an emergent situation, having an emergent meeting with various
individuals. And saying, look, we want to get your thoughts before we come up with something.
But there's a short window of time.

So please, set some time aside. You can give us your particular pain points that we can be aware
of as we're looking at this.
And if people choose to participate, great. If they choose not to participate, then we made the
offer.
The important thing is that we demonstrate process. That we show that we have done this
outreach and that we want to engage.
We're communicating. We're trying to collaborate. And if they're not there and ready to
collaborate with us, then we have to make our own determinations.
But it doesn't hurt to ask. And it doesn't hurt to try.
And I think we do have to set this up. Because the question has been asked of me, well, you said
you were going to come back with something on November 12. What are you going to do on
November 12?
And I have said, well, hopefully we can do something on November 12, but we may not be able
to. We may have to push that back a little because we're now after almost the 24th of October.
But if we emphasize to everyone, this is urgent. We need their time. I think they'll understand
that.
And I think we have enough credibility by virtue of reaching out to them, that we'll have that
participation. Other thoughts on that, relative to the outreach? Then we can talk about anything
else.
But before I go on, actually, let me ask. Director Lewis, are you on the phone?
OK. So I don't hear Director Lewis on the phone. We were hoping that at some point she'll get
in, and she may.
But now, based upon that, any further comments on this idea of outreach and trying to do,
basically, discuss then propose? Mr. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I appreciate all the comments and everything. So
we spent, as you can imagine, a good deal of time talking yesterday amongst SLT about
strategies moving forward in a variety of different categories. And, of course, the main one being
outreach because that's the very first thing we need to do and address.
And so these comments are good. We'll incorporate that. We're actually meeting again today at
3:00 to just discuss this, the senior leadership team.
And this will be the primary thing we want to try to get our arms around and develop a strategy
and a plan around, will be the outreach.

And so we will do that. And we'll go out and do outreach with our stakeholders. And we'll do
that in a timely fashion.
I don't think we would be able to do a good job with, even initial outreach, and come back with
something in November. I don't think that's a good time frame. It's just a few weeks away.
So I would just say, right now, from my perspective, to the Executive Committee to not expect a
draft plan in November because we do want to do a good job with this outreach.
And so, perhaps, December. And I say, perhaps, because it may just depend on the kinds of
comments.
Because if we open this-- we need to be prepared to receive what we receive. And based on what
we receive, might drive some of the schedule a little bit, in terms of the path on the path forward.
So I would think at the soonest we'd want to be with the Board, with a draft plan, would be
December. So I'll just make that change or suggestion now.
And then the other thing I want to just mention about is that we do-- while the regular run board
and service change process, we come to the Board, and then we go out to the public. We do work
with organizations and entities ahead, while we're in development.
We do not develop that in just an RTD vacuum. We are working with stakeholders to develop
whatever kinds of modifications, whether that's additional service hours, or whether it's a
subtraction of service hours. And especially those that are impacted, either way.
But I would say that that's more of an informal-- it's not like a formal process that we advertise.
It's just meeting with those stakeholders that we're either hearing from, or that we know might
have some impacts one way or the other. So I just wanted to put that out there.
The other thing, too, that I think, and I appreciate one of the comments about maybe some
principals just around this particular situation that we're in. We do have our Board-adopted
service standards.
And I think when we do our initial outreach, that's one thing that, at least, I've identified
preliminarily that would be something that we could educate and inform people on. This is
currently our Board-adopted service standards. And then just maybe gather some input on that.
Or are there-- what do you think of these? Are there things that you think we should be doing
differently. Something like that. From a perspective-But I want to ask a question, if I may, to Director Cook about, the way I understood your
comment was that I'm thinking what you said was outside of those already adopted service
standards. Is that correct that we would look at just something relatively different for this
particular work?

SHELLEY COOK: I think to the extent we can, listening to our stakeholders. As the Chair
identified, try to work around a particular pain point, especially because we're talking about, I
think, a temporary change.
So the strict adherence to those standards, it doesn't seem like we, that we necessarily have to.
And to the extent that we can adjust to preferences or priorities or circumstances in the
community, or with other stakeholders, I think that gives us a leg up in terms of moving forward
with this.
But the reason I brought that up was the boxes seem to relate to 15 minute service. So if I
understood correctly from one-on-one discussions, we were looking at those outliers, those that
didn't fall within any given category-- urban, suburban, et cetera.
Those that were outside of the rectangle, rectangular shaded areas, were areas that wouldn't
normally be considered for 15 minute service. And that was where I thought we were getting at
the ridership versus coverage question in a way that was a little bit ahead of the Board.
Is that what you mean? And since I'm talking, because I'll have to go pretty quickly, I wanted to
suggest, too, your plan, what you're talking about sounds good to me, but to the extent possible,
if you could include the Board member whose district it is when you reach out to people.
Hopefully, in many cases, they'll be able to meet as well. And then, advocate when it comes to
the Board as a whole.
DOUG TISDALE: That's an excellent point. And I think that's what Second Vice Chair was
saying, as well. To make sure we engage them. Let me go to General Manager just to finish his
thought.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, just to finish the thought. That was really helpful, Director Cook. I
appreciate that.
And I think the reason that we referred you over to the Family of Services report was just to get
an idea of how the routes are performing. That's the most readily available location where you
can get a snapshot of that.
Certainly, it's not the only thing that we would plan to make decisions on. And so I think the
input from everybody, and this clarification has been very good. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I have two things.
Dave, I appreciate your clarification about the November 12 not being a hard deadline. But we
have the ability to schedule a special meeting.

And this might warrant a special meeting. Just because, number one, it's a very serious issue for
stakeholders and our Operators. So I would suggest considering that.
And this is more parochial now. Reaching out to stakeholders in the community, my community,
as big as it is, mostly it's unincorporated.
The Jefferson County commissioners, there are three of them. So that's clearly an elected body
that we want to work with, but we don't have formal town councils for Morrison, or Columbine.
It's really big and broad, and I would like to talk to maybe the community engagement people
just to see how we could target some groups.
And one of the groups is the umbrella group of homeowners associations. So I just think that for
me, personally, I need to figure out how that would look.
Because it's not as structured as most of the urban areas, or even Director Cook's area where she
has Arvada. I just don't have that.
And so I can work with the chambers, but a lot of the business community aren't the commuters
that come in. And they're willing to get the word out.
Evergreen chambers, great. Conifer chambers, good. The economic development, Jeffco
Economic development.. But I still-- and that's the business community, which is one aspect of
it. But the broader community, I'm struggling with that. So I need to work with Christine and
Pauletta pretty soon to see what that looks like.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. And I would just offer that up.
If any Board member has ideas or suggestions or groups that they definitely want us to make a
contact point with, to let us know. And we'll try to accommodate that as best we can in the
outreach plan.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me follow up on one point, particularly that First Vice Chair made, and
that is in terms of special meeting. That is something that I think staff should understand.
We're prepared to do that if that will help. Because that also addresses the Secretary's point when
Director Walker said, you've got people out there being mandated.
We want to address this as rapidly as possible. So we can do a special meeting. But Executive
Manager has a comment.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we did talk about having a special meeting in SLT on Tuesday.
But I want to understand what your thought is, what that special meeting would concern.
Because when we have our meeting later, we can discuss what your thoughts are, and what the
timing looks like for the team. As to what you would want being brought forward at that specific
time, number one.

And number two, we also talked about all of the Directors being engaged in their specific
districts. And that they're going to need to be flexible and pliable in order to do that because the
timing is going to be tight. And with all of the stakeholders that we have to pull together, the
Directors may have to be the flexible ones, based on the groups and how they pull together.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I have two thoughts. And I just threw that idea out as a special
meeting, not having thought it all through.
But I think we're going to have to work through that a little bit. But there are two points I wanted
to make.
One is that if we put it in the course of a normal committee meeting, it gets somewhat diluted.
And I think it's an important enough issue that a special meeting just to deal with the Operator
shortage and the plan moving forward elevates it to the public and to our employees, that it's
very important to the Board. That was my first thought. And just because I didn't want it to get
lost in the other committee.
And, case in point, when we have our-- those are long meetings. When we have finance, and we
have operations, and they go till 10 o'clock, people get tired at the end of whichever one we're
doing.
And I just think that having a special meeting would be important. Because it does tell
everybody that we're taking this seriously. And-DOUG TISDALE: And if I may, oh, I'm sorry. Go on.
PEGGY CATLIN: And just in the normal course, it might give staff an opportunity to not have
to wait, and to be able to jump on this a little more quickly. So those were my two thoughts.
Does that help?
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, just to amplify on that, and then we'll go to General Manager. In
terms of a special meeting, I think the special meeting would be for the consideration of a
proposed service cut on a temporary basis, a sunsetted basis, based upon discussions had with
communities, associations, Directors, stakeholders, and the like.
So the draft plan, I think, is what we would talk about addressing at that special meeting. Mr.
General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Or may I suggest, we could do it in phases. So perhaps, like after we get all
the outreach done, maybe it's a study session where we come in and we can really roll up our
sleeves collectively as a Board and a staff, and communicate to the Board.
Here's the information we've collected. Here's some ideas and some thoughts we have. And
maybe not so much even have a draft plan at that time. I mean, maybe, to the state that it could
be developed or ideas.

And then, again, it could be more of an iterative And then maybe it comes to a special Board
meeting, or even a committee, after we've had time to really have some focused work on it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Around some of these principles?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, it could be around the principles. And it could be around what we're
hearing from the communities.
And then, perhaps, initial staff ideas. And not so much a draft plan.
But that way, I think it's a more iterative process, where we've included community input. And
then we come to the Board, and it's collaborative with the Board, as opposed to us coming in
with a specific draft plan.
These can all be worked out. It's just an idea, and I thought I'd put it out for consideration.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think that's the important thing to emphasize, is that it is a collaborative
process. It is a process with the Board.
But we also don't want to tie the hands of staff so that this doesn't get done until next February.
And we continue to lose Operators by virtue of the mandates, and the split shifts, and the
restroom issues that have been presented to us.
All right, further-- let me ask first, Director Lewis, are you on the phone with us?
PEGGY CATLIN: I heard a beep so-DOUG TISDALE: Director Lewis, are you on the phone with us? All right, so she's not here
with us at this time.
So we can continue the discussion on Operator shortage because it probably is the biggest single
thing that we're dealing with. Well, one of the two biggest things we're dealing with, the budget
being the other one.
Relative to this Operator shortage, we've talked about process here. And began with the question
of saying, let's discuss then propose. And we've come up with some excellent ideas on how to do
that.
To do it as an iterative process to indicate that the Board is willing to meet specially to take up
either a first phase, or a draft plan, or something in between.
Other thoughts on Operator shortage, because I know Director Cook, Madam Treasurer, you
indicated you had to leave at some point. So let me just turn to you first if you have some other
thoughts you want to share about the Operator shortage question.

SHELLEY COOK: No, and I appreciate very much all the discussion, and what we've sketched
out so far, and what the General Manager responded to, and First and Second Vice, and the
Secretary's comments all good. So thank you. I will sign off though now.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. We appreciate your participation for as long
as you could.
Other thoughts from others relative to Operator shortage? Any additional ideas you want to share
with General Manager at this time?
Because we know their meeting at 3 o'clock to talk about this. I think he's going to want to be
able to pass on what our thoughts are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only other thing that I want, and I shared this with you, is
we're in an election cycle right now. And the election is, what, 10 days-- I don't know, when's
November-PEGGY CATLIN: November 5.
And so just as we're going out and talking to these key stakeholders, just touching base with
these candidates, so that-- because we don't know who's going to be elected into those positions
and we need to have them briefed on what we're doing, I think, might be really helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, and not to broadcast too much about what might be considered, but I
think Aurora could be impacted heavily by anything that we ultimately propose. And so it
probably is a good idea to reach out to some of the candidates in the Aurora municipal election.
PEGGY CATLIN: Brighton and Commerce City, as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Brighton and Commerce City.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, so I think that helps a lot.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can I mention something to you? I had a sidebar discussion with Dave Jensen
last night about some ideas I have. And then I also-DOUG TISDALE: Can't hear you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I had a sidebar discussion with Dave Jensen last night about some thoughts I
have about creatively working, especially with the part-time issue. And then I also had a
conversation on the way over here when I was walking with Michael Ford, who I ran into on the
street.
I talked to him about some of those things as well. So if they mention something about that, I just
wanted to let you know.

But I've seen some things work where-- I don't know if the union would be amenable to this, but
part-time, you have a job, you share a full-time position. Job sharing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was thinking about that, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: And, I mean, then it begs the question about benefits. But it still provides that
flexibility. So I was thinking about that.
And then the other thing was a similar job sharing arrangement, only you have two people
sharing a schedule. And you have one person working six days one week, and then off six days
the next. And another person picking that up.
So I don't know what the work rules would allow, but that might offer some-- I mean, people
would probably be willing to work split shifts and overtime in a concentrated six-day period if
they could be guaranteed six days off, and somebody else would pick up that responsibility that
other week. So another form of job sharing arrangement that I threw out there.
DOUG TISDALE: You raise excellent points that, obviously, the issue is dealing with-PEGGY CATLIN: The union.
DOUG TISDALE: --the unions and the collective bargaining agreement.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yep, exactly.
DOUG TISDALE: And that's why a big part of this process has to be outreach to the
Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001. They're important partners in this.
DAVE GENOVA: We actually have a-- we've been working on this schedule for months now.
But our next SLT ATU Executive Board meeting is coming up the first week in Nov-- like,
November 4, November 7, something like that.
So I mean, we're already on the schedule because we've just been working on our next meeting
even before we started working through these last couple weeks. So we have that coming up.
The other thing I'll mention, too, is that I think we need to be prepared for, just in speaking about
the collective bargaining agreements, and this whole public discussion that's happening. We just
need to be prepared that it's kind of like negotiating in public, right now.
And I just want to make sure that people have that level of awareness. And so, for example,
we're starting to hear a lot more now that it's, well, no, it's about wages and benefits.
Because there's opportunity, right? But like any contractual agreement, there's opportunity on
both sides. So there's more flexibility that we would like to have that typically doesn't come in a
contract, that we could get out of it.

So we're also looking at other things, of course. The Board might remember a few years ago,
before we did the last negotiation, we just arbitrarily raised Operator wages $1 to try to help with
recrui-- I think that was in 2017 or so.
So I don't know what kinds of things may rise, we need to just be aware of it because-PEGGY CATLIN: I appreciate that.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, I've just been having several-- as my awareness goes off on these,
several light bulbs go off. And then another one goes off. And it's just interesting observations.
DOUG TISDALE: We appreciate your sharing that with us. Madam Second Vice Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just want to say on this job sharing, the six days on, six days
off. I think that, when I think about mothers or single mothers, or single dads, that a split shift
would be, I take the morning, you take the afternoon.
Because one of the big issues I keep hearing is that then they're stuck in between, and have to
stay there because it doesn't make sense to go home. If they could actually just then leave, I think
that would really alleviate a lot of the pressure, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was just throwing out ideas. Not-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I mean, this is like an evolving kind of deal, but-DOUG TISDALE: And I think all those ideas can and should be shared with staff. I think what
General Manager is also pointing out, we may not necessarily want to share all of them in open
meetings because-PEGGY CATLIN: Correct, today.
DOUG TISDALE: --then it appears as though we're somehow trying to-PEGGY CATLIN: Negotiate, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: --either micromanage or negotiate. That said, I really appreciate-- and I don't
know if she's still on the line-- but I really appreciated Director Menten's very informed and
pointed discussion on Tuesday night concerning some of the CBA issues, not the least of which
is the cap on part time.
Because there definitely are solutions available and it addresses, to some extent, what both First
Vice Chair and Second Vice Chair are now discussing. So to the extent that you're on the phone,
Director Menten, thank you. And I personally appreciated that, and I think we all did.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh yeah. Superbly.

NATALIE MENTEN: I am here.
DOUG TISDALE: Great. OK. Other thoughts on Operator shortage before we turn to-- and, let
me ask, before I even do that.
Director Lewis, are you on the phone with us? Director Lewis, are you on the phone with us?
All right, I guess not at this point. Other thoughts on Operator shortage before we turn to expense
policy?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only thing that I'm thinking of is, how can we, as a Board,
support the staff as you go in and start working with the unions? So that they know that we are a
collective voice, and that we really want to move this forward together, I think would be really
important.
DAVE GENOVA: OK. I'll keep that in mind, then.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. All right. Thank you. All right, then, hopefully, between General
Manager and our Executive Manager we have good fuel for discussion for SLT meeting this
afternoon, going forward on the Operator shortage issue.
Next, relative to the expense policy, we previewed this discussion briefly. I guess it was three
weeks ago, perhaps, that I mentioned it in other matters in one of the committee meetings.
And it relates to the request by our Chief Financial Officer for the Board office to provide some
additional reductions in Board office expenses so that the Chief Financial Officer would be able
to balance the budget, as we are required to do.
In connection with that, you have been provided with, and we have discussed previously, very
briefly, the resolution from 2009 and the resolution from 2011. The 2011 resolution was signed
by our current Second Vice Chair, concerning the decrease in Directors' local expenses and a
decrease in the Directors' travel expenses.
Those reductions were time-limited. They were just for the particular budget year.
You will note that in both cases, in 2009 and in 2011, the resolutions were actually passed in the
year during which the reduction was to take place. The 2009 resolution was passed in January of
2009. The 2011 resolution was passed in February of 2011.
We don't have a specific proposal before us at this point. We have a concept that we wanted to
discuss. And the concept is to adopt a similar reduction for our fiscal year 2020.

And the comments that I made at that meeting did prompt several reactions-- [PHONE
RINGING]
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize.
DOUG TISDALE: And so we want to have the opportunity for the Executive Committee to have
some discussion about this now. And I will give a little bit further background, and then have the
Executive Manager provide some.
As I said the 2009, 2011 proposals, or resolutions, were adopted in that fiscal year, 2009 and
2011. We are being asked now, in 2019, to consider a resolution to be adopted for the 2020
budget.
The reason for that, I am informed, is that, at this point in time, the Chief Financial Officer is
experiencing severe challenges in trying to make the budget balance. And we've had that
discussion. We had an extended discussion on Tuesday night on just exactly on that issue.
The request has been made to the Board office to reduce the Board office budget by a total of
$200,000. Our Executive Manager has, to date, through very hard work, reduced it by
approximately $150,000.
There is a $50,000 delta that is left to be addressed. And the question is, this proposal, if we were
to adopt the same exact approach that we did in 2009, 2011, would yield approximately $49,000
or so.
Let me ask Executive Manager to expand upon this. And she has some additional information
she has also passed out to you now. Madam Executive Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, I've already made an adjustment on the Board operations side of
$150,000. The second ask is 66, not 50.
So the delta is $66,000, with a total of $216,000. We are the smallest budget in the agency.
I want to preface that. So it may not sound like a lot of money, but it is a lot of money for us.
I've provided you with the 2018 Directors spending summary, which shows that we left $88,000
on the table in 2018. With the reduction, and the spending trends were the same this year, we
would have a remaining $43,000.
We also looked at the IT budget. We cut that once already, based on what the averages were in
the past. And it doesn't seem like there's that much room to make a cut there.
So that 2018 review is in front of you. And then, we have two Board reports and resolutions
behind. One for local and travel expenses. That is an overview of the numbers that the Chair
spoke about in the meeting last month.

And then, on the last page, there are some alternatives that I came up with, that the Board may
choose to look at. Just thinking a little bit out of the box. And I want to speak to those for a little
bit.
The first one is the normal reduction. The $1,000 from local and $3,000 from travel, netting
$45,000.
If we reduce the travel budget by $1,000 and the local by $1,000, reducing that a bit, it gives us a
net $30,000, which gives me a delta of $36,000 to come up with out of Board operations.
And then the third option would be that we take a portion of the cost of the dinners that we have
on Tuesday nights and charge that back at a certain dollar amount, a set dollar amount. That
would offset the costs from the Board office.
And I just used a number of $10 per meeting. So right now, the Board office pays for the first
two APTA conference fees.
And we would reduce that by one. And then those two items combined together is a net savings
of $27,750.
Regardless of the choice, we really have to make a choice.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So all-- but you're doing one of each. Like we choose one of
these, or-BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it didn't seem like we had consensus on, across the Board, what
we've done in the past. So I wanted to try to figure out some alternatives that was a substantial
number, that could help me offset the Board operations.
Now, it can be-- we can do the two bottom combinations, which would be $67,750. Which
would mean I would cut 150, and the Directors, out of their budget, would cut the additional
delta of $66,000.
Or we could keep it the same as where we cut the 45 and do it as we had done traditionally. But I
wanted to offer some other options that I saw out there that might work better for the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chairman, if I might.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: One of the things that I think might be good. I'm not opposed to
cutting budgets at all, but I do think that in light of the seriousness of the budget deficits that we
have, that the Board might be more willing to do this if the senior leadership team did the same
thing.

Like if that came forward as, not only are we cutting ours, but they're cutting theirs, to show that
everybody's got skin in the game. But I am open to any of these suggestions that you think would
be the best.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, I can say from what I've seen, staff has already done all of this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. But maybe just saying that would be really helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right? So that everybody knows, it's not just us, it's everybody.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I also know that it seems like a very tiny amount of money, to
the money that we're looking for, and to the money that it costs the agency as a whole.
But to just give you an example, Henry said in senior leadership, with the budget cuts that he
experienced, if one of the lifts were to break at district shops, he doesn't have the money in the
budget to fix it. This $45,000 would fix it.
So in terms of rationalizing this small amount of money, in terms of some of the projects that are
being brought forward and some of the emergency items that happen in any given year, that
there's really not a lot of extra budget for, it is helpful. And it just was prudent for me to bring it
forward because-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I agree.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me, before I recognize General Manager, I think you've hit upon
something that's important in terms of communication. Because I think what you're asking about
has been done, but the Board has not had that communicated to the Board.
So we need to share in that. Mr. General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I just want to be clear that I have not seen the final list from all the
departments. So each department was given a target number. And we did not specify to each
department how to get there.
We said, you know your department better than anybody else. Tell us what's going to get you
there. So we didn't specifically say it had to be so much per particular item.
But, then again, there's a lot more flexibility because they're just bigger budgets. So a couple of
things I do want to let the Board know, though, is that the General Manager does approve every
travel request that comes through. So each one gets scrutiny.
So we haven't specifically given direction for them to reduce travel. Now, certain departments
are doing that on their own.

But if that's something the Board would desire-- I have asked SLT. I said, each department, I
want to see the travel itemized on what's requested by department so I can take a very specific
look at that. And then I can compare that to last year.
So that piece is in progress right now. But we are also, I will tell the Board, we took the $9
million placeholder for service reduction out of the equation. And we are going after other ways
to look at that $9 million.
And I just met with Heather this morning. And we were looking at some very significant things
that are going to affect salaried employees.
In terms of, I think you saw, in the last, on Tuesday night, that we were cutting in half the merit
raises. And now, we're looking at no merit raises for next year.
And, in fact, we're looking at other cost-cutting measures to possibly include time off days or
furlough days. So, believe me, everyone is experiencing quite a bit of reduction in each
department.
So now, Henry's comments on Wednesday were very sobering. He gave a list of-- he gave about
a half a dozen examples. If this, if that, if this happens, if this happens, then we're going to have
to figure out what we're going to do. I can't just do it.
We do carry a very small amount, I believe, it's $5 million in contingency for emergency kinds
of things that we don't budget for.
So what we don't want to do is have-- this is the traditional over the last couple of years. We
don't want each department having a contingency within their own budgets.
We want them very tight. Very close to a zero variance at the end of the year.
So instead of them putting contingency in department by department, we have one operational
contingency budget for $5 million. That's the plan for 2020.
But I just want the Executive Committee to know that, because of the reductions we're doing
department by department, that $5 million is now even less of a contingency, if you will. So the
order of magnitude that we are digging is very deep. And I just want to make sure the Executive
Committee is aware.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you for sharing that specific information because, among other
things, we'll talk about this with the third other matter that I will bring up. The question is raised,
well, what about the bonuses that have been paid in the past?
And the answer is, generally speaking, there have been no bonuses paid in past. The discussion
that the General Manager just had is not a question of taking away bonuses for next year.
It's taking away raises. Budgeted, planned--

PEGGY CATLIN: So it's a salary freeze.
DOUG TISDALE: --merit raises for salaries.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, essentially.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Which we experienced this year.
DOUG TISDALE: That's different.
DAVE GENOVA: But we've had years and years of it around here. And as you saw, on the
wages on the represented side that I put up on Tuesday night, as I said, we didn't get into the
situation we're in today overnight. It's been building for years, and years, and years.
So I just reiterate, we've had a number of years on both the represented side and a salary side
where we've had salary freezes. And we have to be cautious about that because there are impacts
of those kinds of things.
Hopefully, forecasts will improve and we won't have to do that year to year. But when we do
those kinds of things, then we get behind market. And then we're scrambling again to-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I can tell you in the private sector, it was in the early 80s. We were
salaried employees and we were mandated a four-day workweek.
We all got 80% of our salaries. I've seen really drastic measures taken before.
DAVE GENOVA: Yep.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Walker, Mr. Secretary, we haven't heard from you yet on this issue
concerning the expense policy. Do you want to share with us some of your thoughts?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm not suggesting that, I'm just-JEFF WALKER: Sure, sure. I've been on both sides of that. I work for a private consulting firm,
private side consulting firm, where we were mandated to work overtime.
I can't remember if it was 8, 10 hours more a week because the revenues for the firm were down.
They were below expectations or projections. So we had to work over-- and I've also been-Well, when I worked for CDOT and my current company, et cetera, we've had a couple of years
here and there where we didn't receive any raises. And we had other cuts. So I've been of both of
that.
I'm fine with the reduction in our expense reports. I'm sorry, with our individual expense budget,
I'm fine with any of the options that Ms. McManus laid out.

I'll support whatever is needed to get us to that level, so that we can show that we're making our
contribution also.
DOUG TISDALE: And we know Director Cook is gone. But let me just ask, because we have
the benefit of her being available, Director Menten, are you still on the line?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm a benefit. Hey, all right.
OK, I don't have the proposals in front of me, so I am a bit blind. But from hearing the
conversation, my first-- the way I would want to go is reduction in the outside travel, not the
local. Our first job is here within our districts.
I would much rather see the APTA changes and whatever is being included. I don't know that I
have a clear picture on where our travel budget is right now.
And my understanding is, looking at, it was one of the budget documents. And I know that,
Barbara, I spoke to you about this a little bit probably a couple months ago.
But I was not clear on whether we had overspent. We mentioned, it was more of a mention,
about a timing of why we were ahead of what our budget figure should be, I believe.
So that's my first thought, there. I would like to mention that one area that I have not heard
mentioned. And where it really stems from a Board directive as to outreach.
I can not express how frustrated and, really, very disappointed I am when we spend taxpayer
money to the tune of $1,000 for a chamber dinner. And I keep seeing these invites year, after
year, after year.
When I questioned this in the past, the response was, well, we told civil rights to go do that. So I
would like a, at least, temporary elimination of that.
I know we're trying to make $10,000 to meet our goal and those kind of things will make a
difference in the goals that I've heard discussed here. So those are my thoughts, but I am looking
forward to seeing hard copy to follow up with what I've heard here in this discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: Great. Well, I wanted to make sure I gave you a chance to chime in on this,
too, because it is an important discussion.
And we want everyone possible to engage in it. Relative to the last point that-PEGGY CATLIN: May I?
DOUG TISDALE: --just follow up on this one thing with her. Relative to the last point in terms
of things like chamber dinners, those actually don't, I believe, come out of the Board office
budget.

BARBARA MCMANUS: No, and Director Menten knows that. She's talking about the overall
budget.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, yeah, and that's what I was-- I just want to make sure that everybody
understood, it's an overall budget observation that she was making, not a Board office budget.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right, directors do get charged back for some of those events that
they do attend. But they're not planned out of this office.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, right, OK. I'm sorry, First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to concur with Director Menten's comment about the priority
for local. This 2018 trend is probably not representative of 2019 just because we have seven
different Directors that may have different priorities.
But I know, for me, personally, in 2019, I'm bumping up against my max for local because of the
vast geographic extent of my district and the lack of transit coverage. So I am required to drive
my car. And it takes a lot of time and a lot of money.
So I agree that the priority should be with the local travel. And that, if we are to cut, it should be
out-of-state travel.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chairman?
DOUG TISDALE: Second Vice Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would also agree with Director Menten in terms of the local,
and taking a look at the other kind of travel. But maybe what we need to do as an agency is write
all of the partners, like the civil rights dinners, and say, for the next year we're taking this out of
our budget to help with bringing everything together.
We want you to know that we respect you. You are a community leader. We'd love to be with
you, but we don't have the funding for it this year.
So that everybody knows not to send us requests. That it's a heads up. We really need to buckle
down. I think would be really helpful in terms of the PR.
Because we will-- I get inundated with people. You need to buy a table here. You need to buy a
ta-And I understand that, and I'm really committed to those organizations in my community. But I
think we need to just say, you know what, we can't do it next year. And so we're taking a hiatus.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I appreciate the observation. Madam Executive Manager.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Dave, in terms of that, can you-- you probably, I know you can speak
more than I can to it. But in the triennial, in all of the documentation for FRA and FTA that
Zamy has to prepare for, aren't those big components, aren't they components of what that
department does and what we have to show that we are doing outreach community-wise?
Because I thought that that was a component of what the requirements were. And so although-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, purchasing tables? But it could be-- we could, instead, sit on
a committee or something, volunteer for this organization. I don't think it needs to be mandatory.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know what the guideline is.
DOUG TISDALE: One at a time. One.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just have heard her speak of that and I don't know what the fine
tuning of that looks like.
DAVE GENOVA: I will look into that with her. But I've made some good notes around this to
get the specifics on the budget, and the possibility of a temporary one-year-DOUG TISDALE: No.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll still get invites. [LAUGHING]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But they'll know we're not going to-DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, but then, at least, we can say-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sorry.
DAVE GENOVA: --this year, we've just made a decision that we can't do it.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, we will still receive invites. And we will still, independently, decide
whether we want to use our local budget to do something or not.
The issue-- and it's very helpful to have this discussion for the benefit of our General Manager on
the other issues. But the issue presented to us is our budget.
The Board office budget and, specifically, the Directors' spending. And I'm hearing a sentiment
that, let's look at out of town travel as a place to cut, rather than local travel expenses.
And are they not equivalent dollars? Remind me.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, they're not. $6,000 for travel and $4,000 for local. But the
Directors have always had the flexibility to move those back and forth as they see fit. But the IT
expense has always been static.

DOUG TISDALE: Right. No one's wanted to change their IT expense, apparently, in the past.
OK. Madam First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: With regard to that, I don't think that the IT expenses have been maxed out.
Have they?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Some-- 1, 2, 3, 4-DOUG TISDALE: Close.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Seven Directors are at their maximum. And the total savings for 2018
would have been $6,000. Now, with communications being what they are, and I hear they're all
going up, I think we're probably at the right amount of money that we need to be.
PEGGY CATLIN: This probably wouldn't make much of a dent, but I would be supportive of
reduced meals, or less extravagant meals.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I agree.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I, personally, I mean, Tai-Shrae does a good job, but I see every Tuesday
that we have lots of food left over.
And there's just an awful lot of food. And, for me, I would be fine with a much more modest box
for dinner.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, that is changing because that budget went down quite a bit.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Oh, good. Well, that's-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and let me ask our Executive Manager to expand upon that. Because
she gave me a bit of a lecture on food yesterday.
And I'd like you to share with everybody today what the issues are with food. Because it seems
like, pardon the expression, low-hanging fruit. So why don't you share with us the discussion
about food budgets.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So, as you know, here in Executive Committee, we've had a couple of
restaurants and experimental catered things come in because the restaurants have a little bit lower
price than the caterers do. And the state of Colorado allows caterers to charge an extra 18%
service charge on top of the cost of the meals, even over and above delivery.
So we've been trying to work around that a little bit by using the restaurants. A lot of the
restaurants don't deliver, and I don't have the bandwidth here for folks.
We don't have any place to park. We can't get to the cars. We've eliminated that piece of it.

We look into box lunches. Quite frankly, box lunches are about $2.50 less per buffet, that what
you see there. And it doesn't seem to make any sense.
Perception-wise, it looks like we're being a little bit less expensive, but we're not eating in front
of the public anymore. So we changed that for perception a year ago.
The cost of all food has gone up for everybody over the past five years. I give my team a budget
every year. And every year, they hit it. This year, it's reduced.
I don't know what that will look like. We've already talked about if we have long meetings or
Executive Sessions, we're not going to have the extra food downstairs. We're just going to have
protein bars and things like that.
If someone is feeling lightheaded, or just not prone to head towards candy, or nuts in the back of
the room. But we really are at pretty much the bare bones of what we can do.
Most of the time, we don't have that much extra food. Sometimes we do.
It doesn't get wasted. Directors come during the week. And if they want to eat-- after Tuesday, if
they want to eat that food, they do.
If there is a lot of food leftover, we donate it.
PEGGY CATLIN: I knew that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, and what we have found is, over the years is that, 30 to 35 is
just the number. And if we go less than that, people don't eat. So we can't have that either.
And we never know what attendance is going to be. We try to gauge it by what's on the agenda
and how many staff members are going to need to be there.
But we're going to be pulling it in tighter. And, like I said, we did lose quite a lot in that budget.
This year, we already-- every year we do Director holiday gifts. And we get something for SLT.
We don't spend a ton of money.
This year, all our purchases were already made prior to a lot of the budget announcements. But
we're looking at reduction there and just every day operation expenses that it costs to run an
office, that the Directors don't normally see.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure. OK, well, I appreciate the efforts.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Definitely.

DOUG TISDALE: Right. Madam Second-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a recommendation that for next
year, we eliminate all travel to APTA, anything outside of the state for a year. And I don't know
what our parameters are in terms of being involved with APTA.
But to show that, for one year, we're going to just not go anywhere other than locally, just to
regroup, I think would be really helpful when you look at this budget. Unless we decide that only
a few representatives go on behalf of the Board, rather than opening it up to everybody.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I hear what you're saying. The thing is, I currently serve as the Chair of
the Transit and Board Member Legislative Committee, so I'm going to go anyway.
And if I have to pay out of my pocket, I'll pay out of my pocket. And I'm also on the Board, and
Director Walker is on the Board of Directors. So I know that we're going to end up traveling
there anyway.
What I do hear is that there is an appetite for reducing the travel budget, and leaving the local
budget alone. And then the question is, if that's the case, can we take the savings that we would
get by reducing travel by $2,000 per Director. There is a $30,000 savings there.
And couple that with the third alternative that you have on the last page of the packet, here.
Directors be charged back for meals at meeting at a cost of $10 bucks per meeting.
That doesn't mean you're paying $10, it just means that your account will be charged $10 for
each of the meetings. And that the Board office would reduce APTA conference fees from two to
one.
That's a total of $27,500. So if you take the $30,000 for the travel, and the $27,500 for those
other two items, that's $57,500. Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, if we're eliminating travel then we already saved that $11,250.
Because that offsets the-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: That offsets that, so really-BARBARA MCMANUS: But if they're not traveling, that would come out anyway.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so my proposal would only give you $37,500 out of the $66,000 that you
need to solve for.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think the combination of reducing the out-of-state travel for budgets, and
then only paying for one registration, where would that get us?

DOUG TISDALE: Well, I think what she just said was the outcome was included in that. Unless
you want to say-BARBARA MCMANUS: So that's 30.
DOUG TISDALE: --we'll reduce it by $2,000. That's $30,000. And over and above that $2,000
reduction, we will also-- actually, wait a minute.
That's right. Because I thought you said that the APTA fees didn't come out of our travel budgetBARBARA MCMANUS: Individual budgets.
DOUG TISDALE: --but out of your budget.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, but I would be proposing that it would-- if they were continuing
to travel, and not changing that, that they would have to pay for everything on their own.
Nothing would come out of my budget.
DOUG TISDALE: So you think if we reduce travel-- just trying to make sure I understand the
buckets. If we take $2,000 out of the Directors' travel bucket, we could also, over and above that,
take out at least $11,250 out of your bucket for APTA registrations. So isn't that then $41,250
that we're saving?
The 30,000 on the $2,000 per Director, plus the $11,250. And, what I'm saying is, if we then,
also charged back meals, I think I might've been right the first time. That it's really the 30 plus
the 27.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, the 30 plus the 27.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So that's 57. What's our gap?
BARBARA MCMANUS: 66.
DOUG TISDALE: 66.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So, we still have, what, 9
BARBARA MCMANUS: I can absorb the 9. I've tried to figure out how to absorb the whole
amount because I didn't know what the Board's decision was going to be. But that's going to-that will be really drastic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: So what are the thoughts of the Executive Committee members to that
proposal. Take the travel budget $2,000 reduction, take a $10 hit to your account for every

meeting where there is food on Tuesday nights, and then take out one of the APTA registrations,
so that we, as a group, collectively, are providing $57,750.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So a question about the APTA thing. Does that mean that every
Board Director would have the opportunity to go to one APTA conference a year?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There would be enough money to go to one APTA conference with
some money left over, which could also be put into their local expenses, if they chose to go to
COMTO, CML, anything local.
PEGGY CATLIN: But we're leaving the local expenses out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But we're leaving the local-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I really think that's a fair thing to do.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Secretary, you've heard this discussion. Do you have any thoughts on it?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, so just so everybody knows, I am on the Board of APTA. I'm also on
leadership APTA Committee.
That includes some travel. It's not mandatory, but it's nice to have a Board member there for the
candidates that are going through their program.
A question about the $10 charge. If a Board member called into a meeting, I'll assume that the
$10 is not charged. Or is that-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. It's all based on attendance and we would manage that here in the
Board office.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I do have a question about Director Walker. So Director
Walker, are you saying then that you should get more money for travel because you're on the
active Board in the Leadership Council thing?
JEFF WALKER: No, I didn't say that. That was just an FYI, it would be nice.
It's not required. I'm more than willing to pay out of my pocket for those travels.

Our Board is an anomaly in the industry in that we get paid a lot more than pretty much any
other Board out there. AP Transit, they also get $1,000 a month, but they have to show up in
order to get that. Atlanta, MARTA's Board, they have to show up to get paid.
So if they're not at the meeting, they don't get paid. Ours is just straight $1,000 a month,
irrespective of whether or not we're there or not.
So because I feel that we have a really big benefit above of any other Board out there, I don't
mind not charging for something. Like I never charge for mileage or anything like that. Or I
rarely do.
So, no, I'm not saying I deserve extra. I'm just saying, just so you know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and again, I'd like to-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JEFF WALKER: Some things that I've noticed on signing time sheets is that the IT expenses are
all over the place. Some Board members charge $20 a month. Some are pushing $140, some hit
that $140 a month limit.
I think it would be nice and streamlined if everybody were capped when it comes to pricing
level. $50, $75 dollars for x service, let's say for internet service. And $50 bucks for the phone.
Some phone expenses are over $100. Blows my money.
But, anyway, I've noticed a lot of Board members take other people out for meals. And they pay
for those meals.
I guess there's nothing prohibiting of that, but that's one way that we could cut expenses also
Minimal, but it's still an effort, and still shows some goodwill.
But I'm fine with the proposal that this McManus has been laid out. $2,000 from travel, $10 for
the meal, and the APTA registration.
DOUG TISDALE: And one APTA. Right.
JEFF WALKER: All that's fine. Yeah. Yeah, all that's fine with me. I was just commenting on
the other stuff.
PEGGY CATLIN: So APTA would also encompass-DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: --Rail-Volution, I'm assuming.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, APTA or Rail-Volution.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Again?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So you could choose either APTA or Rail-Volution. It'd be just
one thing.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It would be how you manage it. If you decided that you didn't want to
put any local expenses in whatsoever, and you wanted to travel with that money, just like now,
you would be able to manage that budget of $3,000, of-PEGGY CATLIN: Seven.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, you would be able to manage all of that money in either bucket
the way you chose. And that's what I was going to say about Director Walker. He puts very few
local expenses in, so he probably would be covered for most of what he would need to do
anyway.
PEGGY CATLIN: Some of it is just circumstantial.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So the idea is we need to go to the Board with something. This
particular item does not need to go through committee.
Is that correct? We can go straight to the Board if it comes through Executive Committee relative
to this policy.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well-DOUG TISDALE: Or do we go through finance?
BARBARA MCMANUS: --I spoke to Heather yesterday and I told her what the timing was.
And she's looking at the budget.
She doesn't know whether she's going to bring anything forward until December. So what I
would like to do is make the changes that we spoke about here, bring it forward as an
information item.
PEGGY CATLIN: In the finance committee?
DOUG TISDALE: At the Board meeting on Tuesday.
BARBARA MCMANUS: In the Board meeting on Tuesday.

DOUG TISDALE: Right, and then present based upon Heather's further discussion and your
discussion-BARBARA MCMANUS: An action item.
DOUG TISDALE: --present an action item at the finance committee meeting on November 12.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And bring it forward at the end of November for approval.
DOUG TISDALE: For the full Board meeting at November whatever that day is.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, there will be some discussion from other Board members who are not
present.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, no, it's up to the Executive Committee to give the Executive Manager
direction.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that this helped me in the context of understanding that this is part of
the Board office's reduction that you're attempting to do. And that individual Directors need to
help that effort in reducing the Board office budget.
And I think that would be good to explain upfront. Because I didn't understand that until now.
And I don't think other Board members do, either.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's why we would bring it forward as an information item, have
this same discussion. And what was discussed and proposed here, I mean, we're open to make
changes like we would for any other.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I just think it would be really helpful to lay the groundwork by
explaining-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yep, absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: --what you're charged with, and the way we can help.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so, therefore, it sounds like we would amend the agenda for
Tuesday in one further respect. And we would put under new matters, informational item.
And I can give a brief overview of that, but I think it would be beneficial as First Vice Chair is
saying, I didn't really understand that until now. And you explained it in terms of trying to solve
the Board office budget issue.
If you were to provide some of that explanation, also with support here, but I think to present as
the informational item the draft-- emphasis on the word draft-- proposal for the reduction to the
travel expense, the charge back for food at meetings, and one conference only instead of two.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Registration.
PEGGY CATLIN: Registration.
DOUG TISDALE: Registration, yeah. Registration for one conference.
PEGGY CATLIN: That is currently paid by the Board office. It doesn't come out of your
respective-DOUG TISDALE: And not out of your budget.
PEGGY CATLIN: --account. So those things put it in context. And I think that would be helpful.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The only other addition would be that all departments are looking at
the-- it's not just the Board office. But this is our contribution to it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Everybody is feeling the pain.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, I think that would be helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: That is something we need to emphasize because-- and it's going to lead into
this next and last other matter that I have. And, of course, whatever else you have, we will talk
about.
And it's the information requests imply that, well, nobody else is giving up anything. Why are
we?
And that's an image that we have to address. And I know that staff is ready to do that. Yes
ma'am.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I heard from a number of Directors that they were very unhappy
that this was brought up in an open forum the first time. That they felt that they were being
pushed to make this decision.
I mean, it's in all the policies. I mean, there's always an option that this is going to happen at any
time. It's not like it wasn't out there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You mean the reduction?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, that we discussed it in an open forum. Well, we don't really have
any other way to discuss it.
But what I will do is, after the meeting today, I'll sort of do-- I mean, it will be in the minutes,
but I want to specifically send an overview to the full Board letting them know what the
discussion is, what we're going to be proposing as an information item at the Board meeting, so
that they're not blindsided.

And that we'll be able to discuss it going forward. And I will work with this Chair and any other
Chair to try to be ahead of that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, thanks for doing that. I know it's extra work for you, but I'll help.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, no, no. It's really, I would rather be ahead of it than some of the
churn that it causes after the fact, because everybody gets heartburn when people are blindsided
and I am all about the communication.
It's just with different folks on the Board, different communication methods work better than
others. So you have to just figure that out as you move along.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, for sure.
DOUG TISDALE: That is definitely true. Any other thoughts on the expense policy. Madam
Second Vice Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just want to thank you. In terms of leaving here and doing a
heads up email to each Director saying, hey, we met today.
We've had some discussion. Here's what's going on. If you have any questions, call anyone on
the Executive Committee.
Because I think one of the biggest issues I hear is that people get blindsided. And then they get
really angry about it. So I think the more we can pay-- it will be much more helpful.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right.
NATALIE MENTEN: May I add one comment, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, please. Go on ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I was very surprised to hear that the registration fees for conferences were
coming out of the Board office budget. I am very surprised by that. I thought that would make
sense to me, come out of the Board Director's budget.
So where did we end up on that? It's limited to one, but it's going to come out of the Board
Director's budget. Right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: The first one would stay the same and come out of the Board office
budget line. So this is something that we can change as we move forward.

The idea of it coming out of the Board office's budget in managing the Directors' budgets, is that
in the past, many of the Chairs wanted to emphasize to Directors that we supported their
education on transportation, and wanted to support the fact that they were going to different
conferences, learning opportunities around the country.
And, by doing that, not all of the expenses come out of the Directors. It was part of the support
from the Board office and the Executive Committee.
That's how that came about. If at some point in time, the Board decides that they want to change
that, and that their budget should be their budget entirely, then we can talk about that as we move
forward.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, well, I'd love to think about the Board Director's own budget.
And also go back to the days of-- well, I won't name names, but let's just say, a former Board
Director liked to emphasize over and over that the transparency that was in their value, in these
conferences, was a report by the Director who went to the conference.
And we've got to wait for them and we don't get those friendly reminders since that Board
Director is no longer with us. But that would be helpful because, personally, I don't know that
there has been proven a lot of value.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten, this is Peggy. Those of us who went to the APTA annual
conference this year got a in-large-font reminder to do a report. And so I'm in the process of
preparing mine.
I took lots of notes when I went to the conference. And, as a matter of fact, because of one
session, I suggested to our General Manager that he take a look at something that had been done
in New York. And he did.
So I might suggest that those people who do attend, do follow up with their written reports and
share them with the rest of the Board. I think that would be appropriate.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Director Menten, those requests are put in all travel packets for all
Directors that travel.
PEGGY CATLIN: In large font. [LAUGHING]
DOUG TISDALE: And for-NATALIE MENTEN: I'm glad to hear that.
DOUG TISDALE: And for the sake of the record, relative to those reports, if you recall, and I've
said this several times in the full Board meeting, that's what other matters is for on our agenda.
For Directors, at that time, to provide all those individual reports.

Because you recall during the Chair's report, I give a-- just a brief, flyby overview of every event
Directors have been involved in.
And then, during other matters, they are welcome, A, to supplement with anything we left out.
And, B, to expand upon each of those items.
So, yes, it is something that is incumbent. And I think you'll hear some interesting ones this
coming Tuesday about New York.
OK. Anything further on the expense policy? All right.
And I doubt that she's here, but I'm going to ask once again. Director Lewis, are you with us?
Director Lewis, are you with us?
OK. Well, let me bring forward to you now, for informational purposes, I don't know that we can
take action on it. Because I don't want to have action taken without Director Lewis having the
opportunity to participate.
We've received from Director Lewis a records request for a number of items. And you have
before you a summary of the items requested by Director Lewis.
And they are, just briefly stated, all upcoming 2019 and 2020 contract renewals, all contracts
pertaining to physical security from 2015 to current, a staff organizational chart, a list of all real
property, newly added or coming full time equivalent employees between 2004 to current, Board
catering budgets and actual expenses from 2004 to current, dollar amount of discretionary budget
for Board Chair from 2004 to current, staff bonuses from 2004 to current, and due to members of
the SLT receive bonuses.
Some of these items have already been answered. You'll see their answers listed here on this
chart.
And Director Menten and Mr. Secretary, the chart can be made available to you, and to all
members of the Board.
But just to let you know, some of them have been answered. But some of them take up a great
deal of time.
We also attached here, for everyone's reference, a copy of two resolutions that-- and I was
shocked to talk to a veteran member of this Board even today, who said, I never realized we had
a four-hour rule.
And I said, well, it's actually the first thing in the Board resource manual. If you look at tab 1 in
the Board resource manual, you will see these two policies relative to a cap on time that we can
demand of staff, or demand of the Board office.

This committee discussed this at detail in our January meeting this year. And we did that, and
there was a question by Director Menten as to whether this was specifically addressed to her.
And at the time, I said, no, we got a bunch of new Board members, and they need to understand
what the policies are that this Board has adopted. So we went through that.
The request that we have received from Director Lewis, the ones that have not already been
responded to, estimate between 23 to 33 hours of staff time in order to compile this information.
I told Director Lewis when this information was forwarded to her by our Executive Manager,
indicating the four-hour rule, that I would present to this Board her request for this information.
Because, and when I say Board, I refer to the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee
would have the power should the Executive Committee want to say, OK, consider this a CORA
request from the Executive Committee. And therefore, staff, your instruction to go ahead and do
that. Respond to all these things and treat it as a CORA request.
If that were done by the Executive Committee, then there would be no cost charged for doing
that. If the Executive Committee were to decline to impose these burdens on staff, then Director
Lewis would have the opportunity to say, well, I still want this information.
I'll submit it is a CORA request, but then she has to pay the costs associated with that. And I
think we charge like $25 an hour for pulling these items or something to that effect.
Director Lewis did suggest to me that, perhaps, what we could do is see if other Directors wanted
to join with her on these requests. And that if there were enough other directors who wanted to
use their four hours for the month on this, it might be resolved. And I said, absolutely that can be
done.
So this is, at this point, informational. Because, as I said, I don't want to make it look like we're
taking action without Director Lewis having the opportunity to participate in the discussion.
And we did specifically invite her. And you've heard me say several times from the beginning
that we would move the agenda to allow her to speak whenever she got on the line. And we've
checked, and she has not been.
Madam First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Two comments. One, do you keep track of time on a
Director-by-Director basis? Because I don't know if I haven't used my four-hour limit or not.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it's usually a four-hour time span for a specific request.
PEGGY CATLIN: Not per month?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, per month.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: But, let's say, for instance, we have three meetings that month. And
every time you come in you ask for something that takes an hour's worth of work.
It's under the four hours, we just do it. We don't track it.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: But if it's a large request like this, that multiple departments, including
this department have more than four hours for each staff time, then we look at it differently.
PEGGY CATLIN: So, for example, if I forward something from a constituent and I ask John to
forward it to the right-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Person.
PEGGY CATLIN: --person, does that?
DOUG TISDALE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's generally a GMR request, or a non-GMR. Yeah, that's not
included.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I just want to make sure that we were aware of what our requests of staff
are.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, and if you ask for a specific backup information in a Tuesday
meeting, then yes, that may take some staff time, but Dave always answers those in the Friday
memo. If it were something that he couldn't put in the Friday memo because it was a huge
project, then we would look at it under these same resolutions.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I just wanted to make sure that with me, personally, that I would know if
I was crossing the line.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, me, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: Because I don't have any way of knowing. Secondly, as I look at this list, and
Director Lewis isn't on the line, so I really can't speak for her. But the way I interpret this, this
looks at an attempt to look at areas where we could possibly cut budget.

I just think that might have been her motivation. And so, I, for one, would be OK with our
Executive Committee, in absorbing some of that. Although, I would question whether some of it
is really valuable information or not. But-BARBARA MCMANUS: I mean, my thought and my conversation with Director Lewis was,
how the agency was run. And how their budget was run in 2004, which was the year Fastracks
was passed.
And how it's run now, that were under operations and maintenance, and past a lot of the build
out, it becomes really irrelevant in how the budget moneys are dispersed. So we tried to get it to
narrow a little bit.
PEGGY CATLIN: I see. Well, 'cause I look at list of real property.
Maybe she's looking at whether or not it's disposable, and we could get some cash. Or catering
budgets, we had that discussion earlier.
So I just think that-- I think the intent was pure. And so that's why I'm inclined to-DOUG TISDALE: Well, for the sake of the record, I don't think anyone ever suggested or
implied that the intent was impure.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, thank you for doing that. And maybe that was a poor choice of words. I
just think-- I would be curious, some of these things would be interesting to have. But I just
didn't know the context.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and that's why we've wanted to have this discussion, was to get the
reaction. Because as Executive Manager tells us, well, do you really care how many added or
coming FTE employees who we had in 2006?
And maybe you do. But that was 13 years ago. And-PEGGY CATLIN: By my math it was 15 years ago.
DOUG TISDALE: In 2006.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I thought you said 2000-- I was looking at 2004.
DOUG TISDALE: No, because I picked a year beyond that. Saying, OK, fine. Let's go forward.
Where do you draw the line in that?
Madam Second Vice Chair, it looked like you had a-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I mean, I was a little perplexed by the 2004 request through
now. Like I don't understand that.

I can see where she's looking at the budget, but it would seem to me comparing last year's budget
to this year's budget might be one thing. But from 2004 seems really kind of-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, it sounds like the Fastracks milestone is really the-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I'd like to know more from her of why-PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --she needs this many years of information.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and I know the Chair said that he would like me to share this
with the full Board. I think a conversation needs to happen with Director Lewis before any of
this shared.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, absolutely
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, thank you for saying that. I did discuss this, as I said, I'll just amplify. I
said, at the beginning of the meeting, I have talked to Director Lewis. I invited her to participate
in this meeting.
I said we would move the agenda and take her whenever she was available for this discussion no
matter what we were discussing. And you have heard me, throughout the meeting, ask, I think,
on eight different occasions, whether she was on the line.
She indicated that she was not inclined to reduce the request at all. And that she wanted us to
consider whether, in fact, other Directors might join in it, so that she could accumulate the hours.
I said, absolutely, that can be done. You're more than welcome to do that.
But let me get, if I may, from the Secretary, at this point, observations and thoughts. Because,
again, I, personally, am going to suggest to you, let's not take final action on this.
[AGREEING]
Because I don't want Director Lewis to think that somehow she wasn't afforded the opportunity.
Well, obviously, she was afforded the opportunity, but wasn't able to participate.
So Mr. Secretary, your thoughts.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm not inclined to join in on that request. There's nothing in there that
would benefit any decision that I need to make about anything.

So with these large requirements, and other Directors who also make large requests that take up a
good amount of staff time, I think it would benefit the effort if we had some type of-- as far as I
know, we do not-I think it would benefit the effort if we do have some type of form, like a research request form,
or something like that, that outlines the scope of what any Director would want some staff to
research or pull. To find out if that Director has searched publicly available records before they
start spending taxpayer money on what might be, what could be interpreted as a pet project.
I've worked for companies where one person, one department, makes a request of somebody in
another department. They have to fill out a form saying, what, why, how many hours do you
anticipate, what's their final goal.
Because there might be another way to get the information. Or it might be compiled someplace
else that might-- so it might be the document's sitting on a shelf, rather than several documents
sitting in several shelves of storage units.
This seems above the pale. I don't see the benefit of it being relevant to anything today. And any
decisions that we have to make today. Or, at least, most of what I've heard.
A couple of weeks ago I did ask where the 1980 budget was. I think that's took maybe a day to
locate which storage unit it was in.
Not 24 hours, but the span of a day. So some time during the day to find out which storage unit it
was in.
Now, I did have a very specific reason for it. It was done as I was comparing-- actually
comparing our budget. I was comparing it to 1980, when we became an elected board.
But anyway, so the short of it is, I'm not interested in participating in this. I do think it would
benefit staff, the rest of the Board, and the requesting Board member to have something written
out, explaining what the purpose of the request is.
Because that information, the goal of the information, might be readily available someplace else.
And also to explain what research the Board member has done on his or her own. That's it.
I gotta get back to my meeting here. So thanks for the input. Thanks for the discussion.
And I'll look forward to minutes or any further discussion if anybody has an email or phone call
they want to give to me.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We appreciate your taking time out of
your meetings back there to be a part of our Executive Committee meeting here. Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Take care. See you Tuesday.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten, are you still on the line?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I am.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Principally because I mentioned you by name, and mentioned the
discussion that we had in January, even though you don't have a vote on this, I would appreciate
any thoughts that you might choose to share with us concerning the discussion we're having here
about this staff information request.
NATALIE MENTEN: So if you don't mind, since I don't have a copy, I'm looking for the list of
those items. I have a list of properties.
I know that's something that we've asked for for a long time. We still don't have it. That should
be provided.
All we ever get, really, as the Board, is a list of suggested properties to dispose of. I don't think
that's enough.
So I know that's one of the items on her list. I heard catering expenses, contracts, and FTEs. But I
didn't get that date or year range on some of these things.
And I don't know what I missed on this list I've been writing. So could you go back to that? What
was the list?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, in terms of things, such as FTEs, catering budgets, discretionary
budget for Board Chair, staff bonuses, et cetera. It's from 2004 to date.
And again, some of this, because it may well be that you would choose, Director Menten, to
contact Director Lewis and say, you know what, you can use my four hours.
I'd be happy to have you use some of that. And maybe she resolves some of this by getting other
Directors to agree. And we don't have to consider the issue.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I know I've made a request, personally, for February through
current, check registry so I can add it on to my 2014, year 2014 through now. Check registry that
I keep, which has far more detail.
But I'm not going to give that baby up. So there is a possibility that I would chip in and definitely
support Director Lewis on some of these things.
I need to see those details. And before the meeting, she'll be sending that to myself and Director
Walker, and not sure who else, but I think there are some good questions in this.

And that there is the value in some of these things. I can say, I used to have and probably still do
somewhere an old scan PDF of the salaries compared to pre-FasTracks.
And immediately, after it passed the voters, some people's job listing, substantial increase in
salary. And going way back.
Does he want the FTEs? This is something we discussed briefly with-- we've got more admins
over at bus ops or Light Rail ops.
And the Operators are not increasing. What are these views? I think there is value in some of
these things, in summary.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. We appreciate that. I wanted to make sure you had an
opportunity to share your voice with us, as well.
As I indicated, we're not, I suggest, in a position to take action on this now. Because without
Director Lewis here to speak on her own behalf, I don't want it to be presumed that we were
somehow assuming what she meant, and what she wanted, and so forth.
So we will simply hold this in abeyance at this time. We can bring forward, and these materials
will be made available as part of our minutes for this meeting, relative to the exact committee
materials so people can look at that, too. And we could raise it during other matters at the full
Board meeting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We don't usually add materials from Executive Committee to the
minutes, only the discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, let's-- OK, we'll have the discussion. And I think the discussion has been
fulsome, to say the least. So we have that.
But let's please make sure that, in the first instance, at least, Director Menten, and Secretary
Walker, and Director Lewis receive a copy of these materials. I know Director Lewis has already
seen-BARBARA MCMANUS: And Director Cook.
PEGGY CATLIN: --these things before.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Director Cook.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, all right. That concludes the other matters that the Chair had. And
before we get to the General Manager's report-- he's been very patiently waiting through all this,
are there other matters that other members of the committee have?
Let me start with Dir-- no Director Walker is gone, so that makes it easy. The Secretary is off the
line. The Treasurer is off the line.

Madam Second Vice Chair, any other matters?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So this afternoon at 5 o'clock, there's going to be a flash mob at
15th and Lawrence about the new transit lanes on 15th. And so I plan to be there.
And it's supposed to last 15 minutes, period. So I can't be late because then it'll be over. But a
month or so ago, I participated in an event with Vision Zero. And there was a group that did the
walking, there was a group that biked, there was a group that took a regular transit, and then a
group who took the 16th Street Mall. I was in transit-DOUG TISDALE: You lost.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We lost and we won-DOUG TISDALE: You lost.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --the covenant award of Pokey, which is a stuffed turtle. And so
I'm taking Pokey with me to the flash mob event.
But I thought it was really, very telling about the need for transit lanes for us, being a viable
mode of transportation to get around the community. So I'm looking forward to that.
I just thought I would let you guys know, and if you want to go over and dance for 15 minutes to
the Beach Boys, that's where we'll all be.
DOUG TISDALE: 15th and Lawrence.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 15th and Lawrence.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Perfect. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: At 5 o'clock. Five to 5:15.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Any other other matters from you?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for representing us. I will not be heading back down here.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Madam First Vice Chair, any other other matters from you?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do not have any other matters.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Mr. General Manager, thank you for your patience.
DAVE GENOVA: Oh, it's all good discussion. Believe me, it's informative.

So two very brief, NATA meeting was this morning. And the last month, there was some pretty
severe comments made towards RTD. And that's fine. I receive all kinds of comments, the good,
the bad, and the ugly.
But I do want to let the Board know, we did have four Board members in attendance. Directors
Buzek, Whitmore, Cook, and Lubow. But there was an item on the NATA agenda on follow up
from the RTD comments from the month before.
And they're forming a smaller group, basically, to try to consolidate what their concerns are, to
put into a letter to send to us. And so there's no meeting next month for NATA in November.
But my understanding of the discussion today, that after this group meets, they'll discuss their
collective thoughts at the next NATA meeting in December. And then we'll be receiving that
feedback. So they wanted to try to just gather it in a more, one-voice consensus kind of a issue
paper, or letter.
So we'll be expecting that over the next couple of months. All the Directors provided some
update comments. I gave an update on the in-line testing.
And I was surprised that we did not receive any questions about, really, the Operator shortage
and how it might impact that area. And so I was prepared to respond to questions, but we did not
receive any.
Second item, and I know I did this briefing late on Tuesday-- this item could become a little
political. So I wanted the Executive Committee to be aware of it. And it is the private use of
Denver Union Station.
So the biggest player, obviously, that's interested is Greyhound. My understanding is that they
have a letter of intent to sell their, or to buy-- somebody wants to buy their property here in
Denver, their square block.
And so they've been looking for a home for a while now, and they've been in discussions with us.
And the original proposal was really, really broad, that we received from them years ago. And
we've been working over the years just kind of narrowing it down.
And then also, having to look at, are there others that are interested in using it. Because we didn't
want to limit it to just one private organization or corporate organization.
So just to let the Board know, though, we've been kind of exchanging rates with them. This is a
very challenging thing to price. Because we've looked at all the models across the country, and
there's all kinds of different things that they do.
We came up with kind of a fee and use structure. Greyhound's concern is that that is in great
excess of any other arrangement around the country that they have. And the proposal that they
have given to us, their most recent proposal, we're still a significant distance apart.

So I wanted to let the Board know that because we're working towards trying to close this gap.
And I don't know how soon we'll be bringing this back to the Board.
I don't know if it'll be November or December. But my understanding is Greyhound is very
motivated to get a new location for their operations so they can move on with their land deal.
So the political piece of this is other stakeholders are very interested in that property sale
happening. Of course, it's a square block in Denver, so city and county of Denver, the
partnership, and others.
And so they've been involved a little bit in the conversations, peripherally, like time to time,
checking in with us, and saying what's going on. And Greyhound has pulled together meetings
jointly, with us, with Denver and us in the room. And it does come up time to time with my
Mayor conversations that I have every few months with Mayor Hancock.
So all that said, we're trying to work to get closer, more cognizant, I think, of what I hear mainly
from the Board is value-capture where we can. So we are focused on that to a degree, but it's
going to be very challenging, I think, to have a significant delta in that area.
Our biggest concern, though, is that we not only cover our costs, but also make some
improvements to security, and custodial, and restroom so that our patrons continue to have a
good experience at Union Station.
So just really wanted to just let you know the political nature, in case we can't close this gap as
staff members. And Greyhound may turn up the political heat with Denver.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a question.
DOUG TISDALE: I want to come back and ask questions, as well. So do you want to take
questions on that now or do you want to finish your report, then we can ask-DAVE GENOVA: Those were the only two items I had, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, you go on ahead first Madam Second-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: My question is, is the contingency of selling their property based
on getting ours? Like it's kind of like, they can't move until we develop a straight-- like, they
know they're either coming or they're not going to come. So that will be the political pressure?
DAVE GENOVA: I've not seen that. And I'm even speculating that it exists. This is just kind of
what I've heard.
But I have heard, though, that it is contingent on them finding a home somewhere. And to my
knowledge, I don't think they're actively pursuing anywhere else because Union works really
well for them.

And there are some elements that would be good for us, in terms of the crossover of maybe
patrons that use Greyhound might then become transit patrons. And they already do have some
pass-through there in some of their relationships with Amtrak.
The other challenge I think we're going to have, in addition to coming together financially, is the
ticket-selling. So they have some ideas on it.
We're not sure how that might work for us, or impact us. And so we still need to get together on
that.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have a question. I mean, I can see some of that benefit. I also remember
way, way back when we were planning Denver Union Station, there were discussions about
Greyhound. So it's long been in discussion.
My concern is that the Fastracks plan has a provision for enhanced bus service. If, I mean, in
addition to the finished corridors-- that is a component that some people forget about.
And if we were ever in a position to try and complete the Fastracks plan, it seems to me we
would need additional capacity at Denver Union Station. And would we be closing the door on
potential expansion if we were to go this route?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you for bringing that up. We have talked about the terms of the
contract. What we're proposing is five year. A five year contract-PEGGY CATLIN: We won't be finishing Fastracks in five years.
DAVE GENOVA: --that would also have a termination clause with probably like a half-year
notice. So even if we wanted to terminate, for whatever reason, it's not working out, that's their
preference, is about a half year. I don't see a big issue with that.
So those are the loose terms we're talking about. So we are trying to preserve our future.
PEGGY CATLIN: How are you valuing that space?
DAVE GENOVA: That conversation gets into detail that's a little over my head. But Bill Van
Meter and Doug Monroe are the experts on that. And the reason I presented the other night is
both of them were on travel and out of town.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, OK.
DAVE GENOVA: It's basically based, if I may, quickly. It's basically based on use, on how
many people move through. So, loosely, and so it would be not only that for Greyhound, but for
the other few private carriers that have expressed interest, like the casino shuttles and a couple
others.

DOUG TISDALE: I had the opportunity of having some discussions with General Manager
about this, I think just yesterday. And I have emphasized what I believe the Board would, when
given the opportunity to address this more fully, agree with. And that is, there is a distinct
difference between a cost-recovery approach and a value-capture approach.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's true.
DOUG TISDALE: Cost-recovery is what the tenant always wants to say. Well, as long as you
get your costs, you're going to be good. And as a landlord, I say, I have something that's
valuable.
PEGGY CATLIN: That was the point of my question.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And I'm going to get the value for that, not just my cost. Because the
other element of that is you have a tenant who seeks to define your costs.
The tenant says, well, the only costs you really have is some additional janitorial. We'll be very
neat. We won't take up a lot of space.
Your tenant doesn't define your costs. The landlord-PEGGY CATLIN: If that was the case, then my rental tenants would-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, that's the thing. The landlord decides what the costs are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I agree.
DOUG TISDALE: And you say, this is part of my cost. And that's how you have big discussions
over CAM, common area maintenance costs, when you're doing shopping center leases, and so
forth.
So we don't want to get in the trap of having the tenant say, well, we'll cover your costs, and
these are what your costs are. We want to approach a value-capture.
Now, at the end of the day, you end up somewhere in between. Nobody wants to be hard. But if
they insist upon being hard, and say, no, it'll just be costs and we'll define what your costs are,
my response is, if you wouldn't mind getting out of the way, there's a guy behind you I can do
business with because obviously it's not you. And we move on from there.
But that's the one Director's view. I think many of the other Directors would agree with that,
given the opportunity.
And I think once they, Greyhound, have an opportunity to consider this, they'll understand that
and agree with it, too. It's the same kind of approach that we had with the National Medal of
Honor Museum.

When we said, OK, look, there's got to be some better approach here than a buck a year. And
then a third party stepped in, and said, yeah, we understand that. We'd be willing to cover it.
So those are my thoughts. Based upon that, any other comments from any Director or from
General Manager?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do want to do a follow up on Councilwoman Cdebaca's request
about the tiny village. And Bill Van Meter did respond back to her.
And the response was, there really is nothing prohibiting the tiny villages being there, but it
would be up to the city to move forward on that. And so-PEGGY CATLIN: Where would this be?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It would be where we would do the museum. There's the
property.
So that was sent to the councilwoman last week. I've not heard from her, but it would be the City
of Denver who would then have to move forward and try and do something with that.
DOUG TISDALE: And come up with a proposal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And come up with a proposal.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you for bringing that up because I did see the response that Bill wrote.
It was fairly general.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It was.
DAVE GENOVA: Because since then, I've had calls from the Downtown Denver Partnership
and Evan Dreyer, who's an aide to the mayor. And they're saying, what's going on. And did you,
in fact, get a request from councilwoman.
And I said, well, we got some kind of a request. And we gave a pretty general response. So stay
tuned.
Because Evan Dreyer from the mayor's office said, well, we also are interested. But I don't know
if that meant that Denver, the City, is interested in something different other than the tiny houses.
So stay tuned.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, stay tuned. I did talk to Tammy Door.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just keep us informed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I will. Which, I'm always amazed that she can call me with so
many different phone numbers.

But I did say to her that the councilwoman did send me a text. And I forwarded as part of just
information. And that I've not really heard anything.
DAVE GENOVA: And we are meeting with her soon. I can't remember, but-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: November 1.
DAVE GENOVA: I'm meeting with all the new city council people. And Director RiveraMalpiede is joining me on those that are in her district.
DOUG TISDALE: As is appropriate, since it's her district. She should.
Clearly, General Manager and all the staff understand that decisions like that would come before
the Board. Before we start creating a tiny house village in Civic Center Station.
All right. Any other-- yeah, as the shivers spread through the room. Any other other matters to
come before the Executive Committee?
I want to thank you all for your incredible patience. I did warn the General Manager before. I
said, we got a lot to talk about at this Executive Committee.
And I really appreciate everyone here. What I most appreciate, too, is let us each and all let the
word go forth from this place that there is a record of this meeting, and everything that we do,
and all that we discuss.
Because quite often, Directors will say, well, I didn't know about this. I didn't hear about this.
They're invited.
As Director Menten knows by her incredible patience here for the last 2 and 1/2 hours. They're
always welcome on the phone and we have verbatim transcripts of these meetings available.
Which is why, I don't mean to be a jerk about it, but I do emphasize, one at a time, please.
Because we have to create a written record.
Anything else? Madam First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: And for the record, since this is transcripted, my thoughts about the work,
worker shortage were in no way meant to imply any type of a negotiating position.
DAVE GENOVA: Understood.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, OK.
DAVE GENOVA: Understood, absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Anything further? Then, as of 2:25 PM, Mountain Daylight Time, on
Thursday, October 24, 2019, the Executive Committee stands adjourned.

