2021-07-20
Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening. I will now call to order the Tuesday, July 20 RTD Board
meeting to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask
everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you for joining us this evening.
Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the
interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held
via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes
of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a
livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Colleagues, being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the values that we can all agree upon. As
such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by the Board and to act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website.
Thank you.
Director Williams, would you lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll do my best. Ladies and gentlemen-ALL: I pledge Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it
stands, one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms McManus, would you please call the roll call, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here. I brought my best. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present and accounted for. We have a quorum. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McManus. At RTD, safety is our core value. And I'd like to
begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. While recent public health orders have relaxed
requirements for the use of face coverings in certain settings, don't let your guard down too soon. As a
reminder, the Transit Security Administration, the TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement for
public transportation until September 13, 2021. The federal mask requirement states that individuals must
wear face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation to include airports and aircraft,
train stations, and trains, bus stops, and buses.
This evening, there are no retirees. And this is now our public participation period, which is open to
anyone who would like to address the Board. As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials
present to speak first. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual
hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. And if you're
dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to
be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing, and you will not have the
opportunity to speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board,
please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address, board.office@rtddenver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff make contact
speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers
should begin their remarks by stating their names. Each speaker will have three minutes to speak. And
speakers, please refrain from profane or obscene speech, and direct your comments to the Board as a
whole, and refrain from personal attacks. Ms. McManus, do we have any speakers at this time?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ROSALIE WARD: Yes. My name is Rosalie Ward. I live in Brighton I would like to address the Board
regarding Access-A-Ride coming to my home. I am one block outside the boundaries. So for two years
now, I have had to make arrangements to meet at multiple locations to meet your driver. I have met at a
Circle K. The traffic was pretty heavy there. It was hard for your driver to get turned around or to find me.
I've met at a relative's home. There was a known ETA prior to the portal.
Most recently and for about a year and a half, I've been meeting at Comfort Dental. There was one
instance where the driver left my client at the dental office. By the way, I do adult foster care. And so I
have two clients that live with me full time with developmental disabilities, as well as physical handicaps.
So the driver left the client at the dental office unattended. I was explained after the fact that it's door-todoor, not hand-to-hand, service. The police were contacted and basically just took her information, so if
anything ever did come up again.
I have two clients. The other day, they were put on separate vans. And so I was after the fact instructed to
put one in a PCA. So I am doing that now. The portals weren't working. And so I told them there's no way

I can sit there for two or three hours, which is what I was doing without a portal, to wait for a driver,
because nobody can offer me an ETA.
Today, the driver this morning that met me to pick up my client was told that he was trespassing on
private property. The police were called. And so they no longer want us to meet in that location. So we did
have to find a new location. It's a church that's on 5th and Bromley. It's going to be a little bit more difficult
for the drivers to get in and out of there because of the median and things like that.
So moving on to my clients personally, so one of them-- Well, first I want to bring up the American
Disabilities Act. While I am new to this and still learning, I think that the general thing about that is we
can't make it harder for them to have access to transportation and different things. But in this regard,
we're referring to transportation. One of my clients, she actually went to physical therapy today, and she
can only stand for a few seconds to transfer from her wheelchair to a chair.
At home, I have a Hoyer lift to help me get her into her wheelchair. But when I'm meeting somebody in
the parking lot somewhere, I'm having to transfer her out in my driveway from her wheelchair into the car.
And then once I get there, out of the car, back into the wheelchair. She goes on Access-A-Ride, comes
home. We got to repeat the same routine in reverse.
And so it is difficult for her. There have been several occasions where she can't stand. So she sits down
on the ground, and then I have to try to pick her up. Your drivers have always been helpful when they see
that I'm having complications with her or she can't get her legs to go in the car the right way. So she ends
up going head first and ends up sitting in the floorboard. And I have to try to pull her out and turn her
around to get her into the seat with the seat belt. So it's been beyond difficult.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Thank you, Ms. Ward. Ms. McManus, do we have any
one else in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We have Loren Hansen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Loren, please?
LOREN HANSEN: Howdy, there, y'all. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LOREN HANSEN: Well, I just wanted to talk about a couple of different things I've been thinking about
over the past week or so, particularly in regards to the increase in service that we recently had for the AllStar Game. Well, I think that's a fantastic thing that we did in regards to increase in service. I feel like
beyond just the increases in service for the September service changes, we should just continue to keep
the All-Star mantra in mind and make sure that we're able to increase RTD back the pre-pandemic
service levels.

As someone that rides most of the lines, including, the R Line which has been one of the first on the
chopping blocks to be cut down when it came to service, to me, it seemed to be a bit of a smack in the
face that there was temporary service increases for folks coming from out of town and then reductions
immediately once tax dollars and revenue from people out of state were gone. So I implore you not just to
think beyond the September service changes. But also building out and also restoring two of our light rail
lines would be something that I would be supportive of, so that we can match the All-Star Game with an
all-star transit system in Denver. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no other speakers in the queue, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. With no other-- I'm sorry?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see 720-210-7759, which I thought previously spoke. If I'm mistaken, I
apologize. Would you please announce your name? I believe it's Rosalie Ward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Yes. Ms. Ward spoke. All right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There are no other speakers in the queue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. With no other participants in the queue, we will now post
the public participation period at this time. Next is the committee reports. The committee minutes were
included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from the Directors?
Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will become part of the permanent
record. Next is the General Manager's oversight and performance update. Secretary Buzek, If you would,
please give us an update on the work at the GM Oversight Committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thanks to the members of the GMOC for your hard work
and participation. We will have a matter coming up later in the agenda, a recommended action regarding
the General Manager and the CEO's contract and an amendment to that. That reflects input from the
GMOC as well as the entire Board. I'm sure there'll be further discussion about that as we approach that.
So I'll wait until that time to address any issues that may arise. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is the approval of the Board minutes of June
22, 2021 and the special Board meeting minutes of June 29, 2021. Unless there is an objection to
considering these minutes, all at the same time, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes for
the following meetings? June 22 Board meeting and June 29 special Board meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm Director Williams.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Director Sloan.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movant of Director Williams and a second of Director Sloan. Is
there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no votes to this
action? OK. Seeing none, it passes with 15 votes, Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next is our General Manager's report. General Manager
Johnson, please share with us your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening to you, Board members
and to all who are virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of the
Regional Transportation District. And this evening, as part of my General Manager's report, I will brief you
on the following topics-- the pandemic protocol next steps, strategic plan update, Major League Baseball
All-Star Game activities, our internal audit function improvement, competitive solicitation, and last but not
least, an Accountability Committee recommendation status.
So first and foremost, regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, the United States Health and Human Services
Secretary Xavier Becerra announced yesterday, Monday, July 19, that the national public health
emergency declaration would be renewed effective today, Tuesday, July 20. The public health declaration
is anticipated to be renewed again on October 20 following the current 90 day window and may possibly
be further renewed through the spring of 2022.
According to data from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, immunization rates
continue to decline. Though, between 64 and 1/2% and 82.2% of residents in the counties comprising the
district have received at least one dose of the vaccination. Adams County has the lowest vaccination rate.
And the City and County of Broomfield has the highest, as it stands today.
While vaccination rates and new infections continue to decline overall, hospitalization rates are increasing
slightly across the Denver metro area and other parts of the US. And it remains prudent to be alert to this
trend. Earlier today, I disseminated a memorandum to all employees detailing the next steps the agency
will take in relationship to our pandemic protocols.
Beginning August 1, of the maximum occupancy of RTD offices will increase to 50% with eventual
additional capacity increases predicated upon the decrease of the spread of COVID-19. It's important to
note that all employees will continue to be required to wear a mask at all times while operating vehicles,
passing through buildings, gathering in common areas, and other similar situations.
Pursuant to the Transportation Safety Administration's mask mandate, which runs through September 13,
2021, employees and customers alike must continue to wear masks while aboard transit vehicles and
while waiting at stations, and bus stops, and platforms. In the following months, the executive team along
with myself will continue to review public health trends, including vaccination and infection rates, to
determine whether and when the next occupancy increases will eventually take place.

So I wanted to now touch upon our strategic planning efforts. And I wanted you all to know that work
continues surrounding formalizing the agency's strategic plan. As you all know, this effort is a culmination
of the work of the Board as well as staff to put into revamping the agency's strategic planning process
over the last several months. It is a glimpse of the future of the agency.
As you are aware, the plan will include performance metrics for each of the agency's departments,
detailing specific tactics, metrics, and objectives for all of the major functions performed by each
department and functional work groups, which will result in success outcomes. The strategic plan will be
distributed to the Board by the end of this month in advance of a special Board meeting scheduled for
August 3 for this body's consideration.
It is prudent that the agency advance this initiative in order to allow ample time for the annual budget
preparation process as well as creating alignment around what our initiatives are, as it also correlates to
performance of the overarching organization for each individual employee that are in various nonrepresentative roles. And with that, recognizing that I'm requesting we advance this initiative, we will
resume in earnest following the Board's consideration of that strategic plan, which I noted optimally would
be August 3.
Furthermore, as you heard from one of our public commentors, the Major League Baseball RSR game
was held in Denver just this past Tuesday with several days of the events leading up to the big game.
Compared to the prior three week average, ridership increased on bus and rail 3 and 1/2% on Sunday,
July 11, 36% on Monday, July 12, which was the day of the Home Run Derby, and 20% on Tuesday, July
13 for the All-Star Game itself.
I want to acknowledge my pride in reference to the agency's efforts, and responsiveness, and scalability
to seamlessly accommodate the increased volume of All-Star Game participants on the system during
this very busy week. And I'd be remiss not to acknowledge all of those individuals who played a part in
making this a success. So kudos to all of our team members.
A brief note on the internal audit function improvement. As you know, last week we discussed elements of
what we are intending to do as we go forward. And I want to share, as of yesterday, Monday, July 19,
there is currently an active solicitation for interested parties with respect to providing consulting services
to enhance the implementation at the internal audit work group. And the intent, as you may recall, is to
identify and contract with consultants in the coming weeks in order to continue progress toward full
implementation of the Office of the State Auditor and the peer review panel, which was assembled by the
American Public Transportation Association upon my request to the President and CEO of APTA.
Last but not least, I'd like to touch upon the Accountability Committee final report, which includes
recommendations. As of 2:01 PM today, being Tuesday, July 20, I did receive via electronic
communication the final report. And so with that being said, RTD is currently in receipt. Therefore, the 45
day window for RTD's responses to the committee's recommendation begins, as I stated, today and will
end on Friday, September 3.

Staff has prepared responses, which I have personally read through and in addition to members that have
compiled those based on the Accountability Committee's draft report, which was discussed during the
final formal meeting of the Accountability Committee on July 12. The plan that I outlined going forward is
for staff to review the final report and discern what changes, if any, have been made to the final
document.
The week of July, 26, it is my intent to meet with Directors Guissinger and Whitmore, who served as ex
officio members on the Accountability Committee, to review the timeline for response and Board
engagement. It is also my intent to garner Board's feedback by providing staff's response for review and
comment a minimum of one week prior to a public Board session. Those responses will be compiled and
shared with the Board for consideration and adoption, most likely at the August 24 Board meeting. And
with that, Madam Chair, that concludes my report. Thank you. Very kind.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. Are there any questions for the General
Manager? Seeing none, thank you. Next is our public hearing on the amendment to the 2021 adopted
budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chair hereby calls to order the public hearing on the Regional
Transportation District's amendment to be adopted budget for the year 2021.
In accordance with both RTD's requirements and local government statutes, notice of the public hearing
was doing posted in the Office of the Executive Manager to the Board of Directors. The notice was
published in two major daily newspapers of the district prior to this meeting and on RTD website. This
public hearing will be conducted under the rules and regulations for public hearings adopted by the Board
of Directors of the Regional Transportation District. And a copy of those rules will be part of the record of
this hearing.
The Chair would like to point out that the testimony will be limited to the subject of the public hearing. And
presentations of the testimony should be no longer than three minutes. Written testimony should be
presented to Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors, for distribution to the
Board. The amendment to the 2021 adopted budget was included in the electronic packet for the Board
and the public to review. Are there any participants that would like to speak on this? Ms. McManus, I'll ask
you to help me see if there is anyone.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I currently see no hands up for comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. With no participants in the queue, we will close the public hearing for
the 2021 amended budget at this time. Do we have a motion to accept the amended budget?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movant of Director Davidson and a second of Director Cook. Is
there any discussion on this motion? Seeing none, I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this

action? Seeing none, I'm counting 15 aye votes and 0 no votes with Director-- sorry-- Director Davidson
and Director Cook moving in second unit. So that passes. OK.
This evening, under unanimous consent, there are four items on the agenda, on the consent agenda, that
are listed under item 12 as actions B through E. And they are the internal audit function charter, the
September 2021 service change proposal service equity analysis, incorporation of the land
acknowledgment during monthly Board meetings, and the September 2021 proposed service change.
If anyone has a change to or questions on one of these items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this
time. And we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for consideration
under a recommended action. Seeing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
BOB BROOM: Second, Bob Broom.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I heard Director Davidson is the movant, and Director Broom is the second.
Is there any no votes? Seeing none, I'm counting 15 ayes, 0 noes with Director Davidson as the movant
and Director Broom as the second. OK.
Recommended action, there is one recommended action on the agenda tonight listed as item 13 action F.
That recommended action is for the Board of Directors to adopt the third amendment to the CEO and GM
employment agreement to establish the annual performance appraisal and incentive compensation
program for the General Manager and CEO, Debra A. Johnson, as set forth in the proposed amendment.
Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Director Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have an amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. First, let me say I heard Director Buzek and then Director Catlin.
Discussion, please, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. I'd like to amend. I move to substitute for the proposed third amendment the
portions of the red lined amendment circulated by staff to the Board that provide for 2022, this Johnson
will be eligible for up to a 6% base salary adjustment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I second that amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. I have Director Williams moving that forward with Director
Bouquet seconding it. Is there any discussion on this item? Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am opposed to this amendment as written. The red line
that was circulated by staff indicates a slice from 15% to 6%. And frankly, I just think it's a little too sharp
of a decrease, recognizing there is other pieces at play here. While 15% may have been an arbitrary
choice, I think 6% is just as arbitrary. And so for me to make that price cut-- excuse me-- to make that
compensation cut when we continue to say this is one of the best General Managers and CEOs we've
had-- we wouldn't be here without our General Manager and CEO-- to then cut the incentive based
compensation by over 50% just isn't aligned for me. So that is why I will be a no on this amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd just like to note that the 15% that's referenced was an up
to. Statement was made up to 15%, and that it was put into the previous documents as a benchmark, and
that it allowed for any place from 0% to 15%. And I'd also like to note that this is not for the rest of
eternity. That it's until we get some other work done. And Ms. Johnson has been here long enough to
have some more criteria, and that's why I brought this amendment. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is there any other discussion on this motion? Director
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. I think Debra Johnson is working very hard. I think she's doing a great job.
And I want her to feel well compensated. I can mention several things-- the internal audit work, the
Accountability Committee work, the safety and security, the peer reviews, a number of other issues. I
didn't pick the 6%, but I did suggest that we need to do a compensation analysis before we move forward
in-- I believe that 6% is a good step with our first year performance review. It's a reasonably subjective
performance review. And I think the goal is just to get the compensation analysis done and then make
decisions based on data. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Sorry. Having trouble with my tech today. I would also be opposed to this
amendment. I do appreciate you all putting it forward, but it-- I would really like to see us base some of
these things off of a methodology and really want to address the problem that we're hoping to solve here.
We had a very robust conversation about the 2010 audit report. We had a discussion about what factors
would be included as we were discussing the General Manager's compensation. And so I just I would
prefer that we continue to align in that way.
I will just make note that we've talked quite a bit recently, as of late, about the 2010 audit. We've also
talked about the strategic planning that General Manager Johnson has been responsible for and getting
us to this point where we are able to have the peer reviews, where we are really digging in deep into the
issues that exist within the agency and are finding some resolve and some resolution around those
things.
And so I do think that she's on the right track. And I just do not think this sends the best message. I've
heard some concerns that folks have been a bit concerned about what this may state to our constituents.

And I think it shows that we believe in our General Manager that we made the right hire and that we trust
in her leadership. And so I appreciate you, Director Williams, for moving this forward as well as you,
Director Bouquet. And I cannot support the amendment. Thank you
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair, if you're speaking, we're not hearing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I guess I was muted. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, I did lower my hand. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And to speak to some of the earlier comments, I think
everyone on this Board, we all support-- at least if I can speak for all of us, if that's OK-- our General
Manager. And I don't think anybody is really detracting from that. What we're I think speaking to now is
numbers, and it's very difficult to really match up the numbers with how well she's doing, because as
mentioned earlier by Director Guissinger, if we don't really have the metrics that we need in order to judge
that, it's hard to know what percentage to have.
It's hard to know how to gauge against that percentage. And so I think that's why it's so important to do
this study. It's also important to have more metrics. It's important to have more time in order to ascertain
how well she's doing. Personally, and again, I think all of us thank her for her work. And we all know this
agency has endured a terrible affliction of the virus really causing so much of our ridership to not ride and
many other things.
So she's really had to struggle, and it's not just her but her leadership team, which she is a very strong
hand in selecting, leading. So to wrap that all up, it is difficult to choose a number. Arguably, it should be
higher, but then some could argue it should be lower. And some are saying it's 6%. But I think 6% is a
good number. It is also higher than inflation. And I think it is justifiable at this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would concur with the comments just made by
Director Rosenthal and recently made by Director Williams as well, and others who have spoken in
support. I do believe that the adjustment to a 6% number in the written contract in no way, shape, or form
betokens any kind of assessment of the General Manager other than a good one, other than a positive
one, other than an encouraging one.
And I believe that the number is something that we can with head held high speak to all of our
constituents and justify and that the benefit of what we anticipate may be a further amendment to this
motion, to the main motion, will be further buttressed by a compensation analysis to be performed. So I
do support the amendment. And I thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I agree with many of the comments that people who are in
favor of this have brought up in terms of our regard for CEO and BM Johnson about the need to bring in
numbers. And in fact, I think this in combination with the next amendment reinforces or buttresses, adds
to, the methodology that we've talked about needing. So I really appreciate the work that you all did, you
Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Chair Buzek working with other Board members and with CEO/GM Johnson
to get this done. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. A couple of reasons why I did second this
amendment. The first thing is we're very early into a process. We haven't actually had a study for
compensation yet. And so that's why I think that is appropriate for it. I do also want to echo what Director
Tisdale said. This is not at all a critique of GM/CEO Johnson. This is, I think, far from it.
I think also I would like to put publicly-- I don't want to speak for GM Johnson-- the 6% is a number I
believe that she is comfortable with going forward. And I think that's the big goal for her and us as an
agency is to go forward as an agency and to understand what is the proper compensation. And then from
there, of course, once the study has gone forth, we can look back at it. This is not permanent. But again,
this, from my understanding, is a number that the Chair of the GMOC is comfortable with, the Chair of this
Board is comfortable with, and the GM is comfortable with. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any other comments by Board members? Seeing
none, I will now call for the vote.
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Director Tisdale has his hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry.
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Director Tisdale had his hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale, is your hand still up? You're muted, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: And with apologies, my hand was left dangling unintentionally.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got you. Thank you. OK. Are there any no votes on the motion? Director
Bouquet? I'll just go through the list. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a yes to the amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: My hand was up. I'm a no. But I wanted to just state for the sake of the record that
our General Manager expressed that she was comfortable with this, because she's pretty much worn out
at this process, not because-- so I just wanted to state that for the record, just to clarify her position there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I am a yes as well. And as I recall, during General Manager-- if I can also-- I thought
I heard her say, look, this is really our decision, and it's up to us. And so we are really the decision
makers on this. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have 13 yeses and 2 noes. The motion passes. There's a second
amendment.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, if I may? I have an amendment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BOBBY DISHELL: I move to substitute for the proposed third amendment the portions of the red line that
have been circulated by staff to the Board that provide that the Board will engage a third party by
competitive solicitation to conduct a compensation analysis that will be used to determine the percentage
compensation increase for which Ms. Johnson will be eligible for the performance periods beginning
January 1, 2023.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I have a movant of Director Dishell and a second by Director
Tisdale. Is there any discussion on this motion? Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I believe Director Lewis was ahead of me in the queue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Mike, I'm sorry. I'm having technical difficulties. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Go ahead, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you I just want to state I think this is a good amendment. I'm a little
surprised that we don't have the data for this. I think we need to get the data for this. I think it's completely
clear we have a very strong CEO. We're facing a whole litany of problems right now as an organization. I
think we all intend-- and certainly, I intend-- for RTD to be one of the leading, if not the leading, agencies
in the country.
So I would expect that we would compensate the leaders that we select accordingly. I would expect that
we are very competitive. But I think we need to have some methodology here. So I appreciate the
amendment. I appreciate that very much. I look forward to the results. The faster we can do that, the
better. And then I think we move out with an eye towards being the most competitive in the country.
Thank you. Appreciate it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Actually, I couldn't have said it better myself, Director
Davidson. I completely support this General Manager and really want to be able to back up whatever
increases we give going forward in the future with solid data. And I think what we have placed going
forward next year to start evaluating based on our success outcomes is really, really good. It's just this
first step and the compensation study that we need to get done as soon as possible. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And just to echo what Director Catlin and others have been saying. So
first of all, a supportive word for our General Manager in the work that her, and the team, and of course all
the employees of RTD have been doing. So first of all, I think it's right and proper that she is
compensated for than, as I understand it, from the previous Directors-- sorry-- the General Managers. My
sense is that when this study is done, my hope is that it will get recognized that her work should be
compensated more. And then we can look at that after the study is done. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I really appreciate this, and I appreciate Director Dishell
bringing this forward. I think is really important. I'd just like to say for the state of the record that
historically, women have been underpaid in terms of compensation. So this is a great time for us to be
having this discussion and get really in line with what the market reflects in terms of her experience as a
leader.
I would say also, historically, Black women have been historically underpaid in terms of their
compensation. And I would not be surprised if after we completed this audit that that's exactly what we
learn. And so thank you so much, Director Dishell, for bringing this forward, as I think it's timely and
incredibly important. And I appreciate you, Director Davidson, for bringing forth the opportunity for us to
have some methodologies, because this objective is really, really killing us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams? Or I'm sorry. Director Buzek first and then
Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I want to thank everybody for the good discussion we've had
and the decision on the last one. And I've said this before. I'll say it again. The mere fact that we disagree
on some things does not make us dysfunctional. It means we're functioning appropriately. And if we all
agreed on everything, we'd only need one of us. So I appreciate the discussion. And we're going to
disagree on some things from time to time, but that's a good thing. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to thank Director Dishell for this. And I want to point
out that I think that everybody on this Board thinks that Debra Johnson is doing a phenomenal job. We
think that we're cool, because we hired her. We hired her, because we thought she was good before she
got here. She's done nothing but prove us right since day one, and we anticipate that she will continue to
do so.
We are just having a healthy discussion about what her compensation is. And it is always open at any
time to adjustment. So I'm taking the optimistic outlook that will be reasonable to begin with. And as we all
move forward, we will probably be giving her a ride on Bezos' spaceship to compensate her for the things
that she has done for this agency. Thank you, Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Director Williams. That'll be some spaceship, I think.
All right. Any other Directors? Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And thank you everyone for giving me lots of credit for this wonderful idea.
I do just want to make sure that for the record, while Director Buzek and I don't often agree, this was one
area where we did agree. And there are many others who are a part of this conversation, including all the
members of the GMOC, where we have this discussion about the need to have this compensation
analysis carried out. So I do not want to take full credit for this. There were many others behind the
scenes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams, your hand is still up. OK. Thank you so much.
All right. I would just like to say thank you to this Board of Directors for being so engaged in a thoughtful
process, looking at our General Manager, who I think is the most stellar leader I have worked with in
decades, hands down. And I am just so honored to have her leading this agency. I think the proof is in the
pudding. She has hit the ground running and has done stellar, stellar work. So thank you, General
Manager. Director Cook, I see your hand. Oh, you're muted.
SHELLEY COOK: Just to clarify, we're voting on this amendment only, and we will then be able to
discuss the main motion. Is that correct, Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, that's correct. Yes, that's correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Seeing no other discussion, I'll now call for the votes. And what I'm
going to do again is go through the list just so I'm absolutely sure I've got everybody's voice at the table.
So I hope you could bear with me one second. OK. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to make it unanimous. Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I'm a yes. So yes. 15 ayes. This passes unanimously. Thank you,
ladies and gentlemen. Now, I need to go back to the main motion. All right. The main motion is for the
Board of Directors to adopt a third amendment to the CEO and GM employment agreement to establish
the annual performance appraisal and incentive compensation program for the General Manager and
CEO Debra A. Johnson as set forth in the proposed amendment. Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved as amended.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do I have a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second as amended.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. I have Buzek and Catlin. Is there any discussion on the side of
Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. I had a couple of questions, actually. So I did listen to the GMOC
meeting. And the first question is I had assumed that we would have a chance to look at the baseline data
before committing dollar amounts in subsequent years. So I'm talking about the second period in
particular. Can you all say why it's important without knowing what our baseline will be and how likely a
5% increase, for example, will be? What's the reasoning behind putting in place the 2023 and beyond at
this point, since we don't know what that data is going to be like?
Or if you want, I can just state that as a concern. I don't know if there-- there seems to be a fatigue about
any of the amendments. But if I had my druthers, we would approve the current year and then wait to
develop the particulars, improved as they are with the amendments, until we know what the net promoter
score or the community values score looks like at a baseline, since we're doing those brand new. So
that's what my one question or comment would be.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: You bet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Speaking only for myself, as someone who is also on the GMOC, my understanding of
the idea of charting out the more than just this year-- I have two comments. This is the first one. More
than just this year is not only are we up against the deadline, but we want to chart out a path, so that we
don't end up over a five year contract with a 10th Amendment or something to that effect, and continuing
to abide by the contract, and we need to set the rules of the game and allow everyone to play by that.
The reality is we, as a Board, have an incredible leverage in making these amendments. And so my
understanding of why we are doing beyond just the current year is to really set this stage. And while we
can adjust, there are ways we can adjust, but we wanted to make sure the contract was whole, so to
speak, for the entirety of the General Manager's tenure. And my second comment is just if council could
confirm that the 6% that was amended, do we also need to amend exhibit B, or was that included in the
amendment?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Director Dishell. That was included in the amendment.
BOBBY DISHELL: That is all.
MELANIE SNYDER: And Madam Chair, if I can, just a clarification to--

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: --Director Cook's question that she's asking. As Director Dishell was saying, the way
the agreement is drafted, it does provide some flexibility for the Board in future years to set and adjust the
success outcomes that are set in the strategic plans. So it does envision that it would be reviewed every
year. So it's not that those are being fixed as the strategic plan is currently being discussed. It's just the
framework that's being fixed.
SHELLEY COOK: And to follow up, Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: So does that mean, for example, the 5% increase that then feeds into part of the
compensation pot, that that also could be modified? Or is that only Director-- or CEO/GM Johnson's
suggestion? Or how much flexibility do we have there?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So I'm not sure, Director Cook, what you're referring to with respect to the 5%
increase. As amended, as was discussed, for the first year, so going into 2022 based on the 2021
appraisal, there would be a 6% increase to Ms. Johnson's base salary. And then beginning in 2023, you
would use the strategic plan, and you would also use the compensation analysis. And that would give-- or
that would provide the Board with the basis for the potential increase, the potential percentage that would
be in play. So the Board would set that based on the compensation analysis. And it would also set the
allocation between base and incentive pay going forward as well.
SHELLEY COOK: Right. And so, if I may, the incentive payment in part, if I recall from the GMOC video,
included incentive pay when our CEO obtained a 5% increase in net promoter score in one area, for
example. It was broken down by category. So the question is, if that 5% proves unrealistic, or too easy, or
needs adjusting, do we have within this framework the ability to adjust that in subsequent years?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: So the strategic plan, of course, you have an adopted quite yet. And I think that's the
5% you're referring to when we're talking about the net promoter score. So that is still going to be
adopted. Once the Board adopts it, that would be set for the year going into 2022. At the end of 2022, if
you want to adjust, then you certainly could, going forward.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So it's going to be determined by the strategic plan. It's not been determined by
our last retreat, where that was what was shown as the outcome-- correct? --the 5% increase as the goal.
And appreciate you.

MELANIE SNYDER: And I'll defer to GM/CEO Johnson about the discussion with the 5%. But that, again,
was in discussions with respect to some of the metrics that might be formalized in the strategic plan.
That's not what's memorialized in the contract. The contract provides some flexibility for whatever it is the
Board adopts [INAUDIBLE] metrics.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Madam Chair, could I impose one more question? Forgive me-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: --for hogging the time here. The other question and issue is, as I understand it, our
consultant who developed the framework is also going to be doing the actual surveys and generating the
data upon which this is based. And thinking that for credibility's sake, it would be better if the Board itself
had more oversight over the part of the framework that feeds into the General Manager's compensation.
Rather than it being generated by a consultant of the agency that there is no connection to, is there a way
to have some-- is their willingness on your part, Debra Johnson, to include the GMOC at minimum in
some of how that data is reviewed and generated? Some of the discretionary items, for example, on
community value, where we don't know yet what that indicator is going to look like. We don't know exactly
what they'll include or not include in there. Would you be willing to have the GMOC engage on those
pieces, insofar as they impact your compensation, that element of review by the Board?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I'm not certain if I understand the question of which you're posing, Director Cook,
because when we talk about a net promoter score, all of that data is going to be verified by a third party.
What was stated was that our current consultant could do it, but as was stated before, you all have the
auspices to decide what that may be going forward. So I'm not certain if I'm understanding the question of
which you're posing.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. It looked like from the change to the scope of work that TransPro will be
generating the surveys that feed into those different categories. And if that was simply a sheer
performance tool, I would just be really incredibly impressed. But now that that will also become the
framework for deciding your compensation, the question is, can the Board be a little bit more present in
that part, in the part about how the indicators are established for community value, for example? Just so
that the Board and not just the consultants you've retained, that the Board has some influence over those
metrics that feed into your compensation evaluation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Cook. So keeping in mind that there's going to be
performance metrics and key performance indicators-- and I don't mean this disrespectfully. But as we
look at those metrics relative to what feed into the success outcomes, I don't necessarily know if you guys
have the acumen to determine what the mean distance between failure should be. So those are the
different elements that will feed in to discern how we achieve the success outcomes that we would
leverage going forward.
And I'm amenable to having a discussion around this. But I do think it's premature having this
conversation ambiguity when you have yet to see the final draft strategic plan that incorporates all the

hard work the men and women of this organization have put into, in reference to the departmental and
functional areas, that feed into what we should be doing collectively to help us achieve the outcomes as
prescribed.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually wanted to respond to Director Cook's comment
earlier or question earlier. It's my understanding, Director Cook, that that's not how you typically draft
contracts. And at least it's been my experience on the Board that we typically don't have contracts,
employment contracts at least, that are year over year, that you typically have them for a certain amount
of time.
And that's also been my experience with the contracts that come before us for the purchasing of buses or
allocation to infrastructure, investment, et cetera, et cetera. That has been my experience, Director Cook.
And so I'm not sure. That was actually my understanding as we were having a discussion during the
GMOC. And that's the reason why we decided to not do a month to month, if you will, contract for our
CEO.
VINCE BUZEK: You're on mute, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know why I keep getting muted. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to come back to a comment that
was made by Director Cook earlier. And there was reference to 5% in the contract. If I am correct-- and I
could be totally misunderstanding the question, for which I apologize in advance. But the last sentence of
section two of the proposed agreement addresses 25%.
It says, if RTD-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me-- exceeds the strategic plan success outcomes and
goals by 25%, Ms. Johnson shall receive an additional 2% over performance goal incentive payment. I
don't know if that's the section that Director Cook was referring to, but that's the only other section in the
contract that I read that addresses something with the number five in it. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Also with respect to Director Cook's concern about the Board not being
involved, these questionnaires that come up with the promoter scores, they're developed by
professionals. But I wanted to say that we had a discussion I believe either in our strategic planning
workshop or in the GMOC that, in fact, the Chair of the Board and the Chair of the GMOC would have
input into this process, and communicate with the Board and GMOC, and also would be involved in the
results when they came in, and then communicating them with the General Manager.

So I think we will have Board involvement, Director Cook. That was my understanding. Although, I do
agree with GM/CEO Johnson that we, as a Board, do not have the expertise to properly structure such a
questionnaire to develop some of those outcomes in the community values and those types of things. So
I just think that we have enough checks and balances in place as we have it structured currently.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Director Cook, do you want a second bite at the apple?
Oh, you're muted, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, if you'll allow me. And I really apologize to everybody. So we at the retreat had, I
take, adopted or agreed to goals for each of the four areas. And so I'm carrying forward the assumption
that those success outcomes and the goals associated with them are being integrated into the
compensation discussion. And so the one goal was 5%. And I'm just A, concerned we don't know what
the baseline is yet and want to make sure we'll have a chance, and B, If this was purely a management
tool, I would say absolutely. That's all General Manager CEO Johnson's bailiwick.
But once it's doubling or also being aligned with the compensation structure, then to be completely hands
off, because some elements may-- a net promoter score, not having any ability to up the target, for
example, the 5%. Or at least I'm not I'm not yet sure that we'll have that ability. Or to say the community
value score isn't quite hitting what we see as important in that area. I mean, since that compensation and
the performance evaluation really is the Board's job, I just want to make sure we're not being overly
constrained in how we gather the data. So that's just where I'm coming from. And I'll stop with that,
Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: I really appreciate Director Cook's comments. Director Cook, I'm curious as to what
you would put on the table as a resolution. Like, how would we resolve those concerns?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: OK. It would be that the Board would, with staff, exert some oversight into the data
gathering that relates to the performance pieces that cause the bump in compensation. So not those
purely technical elements that are part of her managing her performance in her organization and driving
that excellence, but more those particular pieces that relate to our compensation decisions. And having
the Board more engaged on that, I think, would be appropriate and make the process more defensible.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, does that answer your question?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: I'm not sure that I understand, but I do hear the concern. I'm just not sure that I
understand what it means for the Board to provide oversight. And so I'm curious, because I'd hate for the
concerns to just be in the wind, and we ignore it and keep moving forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Madam Chair?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: Maybe if TransPro isn't alone and in coordination with our staff, generating the
numbers that-- I don't know. If it was up to me, we would not have them doing the whole ball of wax here,
not have them not only setting up the framework but also generating the data and then providing to us the
numbers that we then take and move into the evaluation piece. I would prefer if there was a way that
somebody could-- if they could engage with GMOC in the same way that we engaged with Gregg Moser,
for example. I would feel a lot better in that case. And it's something that we could take up going forward.
I just was testing whether there's interest in doing that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah. I think I understand where Director Cook's coming from.
And I think it has probably a lot to do with the survey analysis, to set those baseline numbers and so forth.
And what are the questions that we're asking the community, our riders and the community at large? And
I think we're a pretty high performing Board.
So if TransPro wants to develop-- if they're the ones doing the survey-- and I understand, Director Cook,
maybe it should be somebody else. But let's just assume for the sake of argument TransPro is doing the
surveying. Yeah. I would like the questions to be run by the GMOC, just to take a look at, so we can see
what's being done. I mean, even if we say, yeah, it looks great, at least we know what's being put out
there.
And I doubt they're going to-- I hope they wouldn't do anything that'd just be dumb and, say, ask two
questions, and you've got a survey. But it might be nice to have TransPro run that by the GMOC, have
the GMOC look at it, because it is tied to compensation, not just evaluation. And that's something the
Board needs to weigh in on. The GMOC could be the filter for that. There you go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, your hand is still out.
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Because my brain is still confused. But I will put my hand down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Cook, I share your concern. And Director Buzek, I
would love to maybe add this to August's GMOC agenda as a suggestion to spare everyone some extra
time. I know we all have been on here since 4:00 PM. But I would push back on I think the GMOC should
be involved. But I also want to recognize that if we're seeking a statistically valid survey-- I personally am
not a statistician. To my knowledge, I don't know if we have any statisticians on the Board. So I think the
GMOC input is important, because it is tied to compensation.
But I actually think it may be more appropriate to find a independent statistician to either draft the survey
questions or to validate or analyze the what's prepared by TransPro. I can see the importance of linking
the person who made the metric to the survey to make sure we're accomplishing what we need to

accomplish. But I also think it's important that that is validated by a third party who is a statistician or is
similarly trained on statistical validity.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I agree. I think we should bring that up at the next GMOC. And Director Cook, I
hope you can come.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: CEO General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Dishell, for your comment. And I think there is
confusion. And I'm glad that you made the statement you did, because from the outset, it always was
stated that we'd have a third party validate whatever the survey results were. So now, I understand where
Director Cook is going, but it was never assumed that we would have TransPro here for an indefinite
period of time being in lockstep with the agency trying to do surveys.
It was to establish the baseline, so we'd understand in which direction we were going at. And then, it was
incorporated in and basically iterated several times that there would be a third party. I remember precisely
during the course of the joint workshop that was held, Director Cook, you posed a question. And the
response by the consultant was saying that TransPro could do this, or there could be another entity that
would validate, third party. So I don't believe TransPro ever said that they were going to do a survey and
then validate their own results, because that would appear to be a conflict. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other comments from any other Board members? General
Manager, your hand is still up. Thank you. OK. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to call for the vote. I have
Director Dishell as the movant and Director Tisdale as the second. I'm going to go through again. Director
Bouquet?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
VINCE BUZEK: This is on the main motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This is on the main motion. Should I read again?
VINCE BUZEK: I think you have Buzek and Catlin as the first and second. Don't you?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, my gosh. You're right. I'm sorry. It's been a long day. All right.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. I'm sorry. Just for the sake of the record, because there
could be confusion, the main motion was, in fact, Director Buzek's, seconded by me. Then, there were
two amendments discussed. Then, the Chair did call for another motion. There was already a motion
pending on the floor as originally made, which main motion was subject to two amendments, which
amendments were in fact both adopted. The main motion, therefore, as amended is technically what is
before the Board. Thank you, Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. So I'm going to go for the main motion vote. Ready?
Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Lewis?
SHONTEL L. LEWIS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Whitmore?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am a yes. 14 yes, 1 no being Director Cook. The motion passes. OK. Well,
here we go. That passes. There is no executive session on the agenda. We had it earlier. Is there any old
business to come before the Board this evening? Seeing none, any new business to come before the
Board this evening?
I do have one. I have an item for the new business. Each census, the Board must undergo a redistricting
process. And I have appointed Directors Broom and Whitmore to the redistricting ad hoc committee to
lead this effort. Next month at the August 10 Planning Capital Programs and FasTraks Committee, Bill
Van Meter, Assistant General Manager Planning, will provide a more comprehensive update in relation to
the redistricting timeline guidelines and overall process.
OK. I'm not seeing any other matters coming before the Board. I will now-BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE] Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
BOBBY DISHELL: I have one other-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BOBBY DISHELL: --which this may have belonged in old business. But I know we passed the land
acknowledgment today. And I'm hoping that we could actually read it, because why wait? We've been on
the land for a while. So if I may just go ahead and read it out [INAUDIBLE] acknowledgement.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely. Please, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and
trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal
nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous elders who have traveled,
inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this
acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of
the native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contributions in
the district as we go forward.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. It's an appropriate way to end our meeting this evening.
Seeing no other matters before us in the Board meeting, I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
TROY L. WHITMORE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, third, fourth, and fifth.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I heard Director Whitmore and a bunch of people, and Director
Williams as the second. This meeting is adjourned as of 6:47 PM. Thank you all for joining us this
evening. Have a good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

