Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 7,
2009
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

July 7, 2009

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, July 7, 2009 at 5:31p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Chair Christopher, Directors Bagley, Busck, Cohen, Chacon, Daly,
James, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam and Tayer (via conference
phone).
Board Members
Absent:
Director’s Bagley, Brohl, Tobiassen, and O’Boyle.
Subject:

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Marla Lien, Rick Clarke, Bill Van Meter, Pauletta
Tonilas, Daria Serna, Karen Morales, Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova,
Susan Cohen, Teresa Sedmak, Terry Howerter, Bruce Abel, Cal
Shankster, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, Stan Szabelak, Paula Perdue
and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Roger Sherman, Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Maria Garcia-Berry, Cassie
Milestone – Downtown Denver Partnership.
****

Call to Order
I.

Chair Christopher called the meeting to order at 5:31p.m.

Stakeholder Outreach Plan
Director Noel Busck, Chair of the GM Transition Search Committee presented this item
to the board. He informed the board that the process for the executive search is
transparent and it would not be fair if the entire board was not involved. It is now time
to listen to what the stakeholders have to say. Each board member was given a list of
stakeholders (first phase) names that they are responsible for meeting with and
discussing the questions listed. More names will be added down the road. The
stakeholder list was put together based upon the stakeholders when election was going
on. Maria Garcia Berry talked about the questions and the intent. Noel and Maria
requested this process be completed by 7/21/09.
Marla reminded everyone that anything in writing whether it be on e-mail or hand
written notes, it is public record.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 7,
2009
Page 2 of 3

II.

Updates


T-REX Close-Out
Rick Clarke presented this item using a PowerPoint Presentation. The
overview included:
o
o
o
o
o
o

Total Budget – 1.67 Billion
$879 million for light rail
$795 million for highway
Project opened 20 months ahead of schedule on November 17, 2006
The transit part of the project is being completed $3.7 million under
budget
Surplus to be applied to Elati power upgrades. Any surpluses have to
be used within the project.

Rick also informed the board that there are no outstanding or pending claims.



16th Street Mall
Cassie Milestone, Urban Planning Manager from the Downtown Denver
Partnership presented the 16th Street Mall planning process and discussed the
result of the technical assessment. The overview included Paving System,
Utilities Infrastructure, Urban Design Accessibility, Cost and Maintenance.
Please refer to PowerPoint for specifics on each category.
Cassie gave props to Director Bill James, Richard Rost, John Shonsey and other
RTD staff for being part of the Steering Committee.
Rick Clark indicated that the plan is to phase in and do worse conditions first.

III.

Other Matters
Chair Kemp gave kudos to staff for their hard work on T-REX and FasTracks.
Chair Kemp talked about the passing of Dennis Cole and his hard work on the US-36
Corridor, specifically the pedestrian bridge at Superior and Louisville exit. Staff
suggested that a dedication plaque with Dennis’ name be placed on the pedestrian
bridge to honor Dennis and the great work he did on this project.
MOTION:

Director Busck made a motion to accept
staff’s recommendation as Chair Kemp
stated.

SECOND:

Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 7,
2009
Page 3 of 3

Phil Washington, Interim General Manager, thanked the Board for attending the
Memorial service for Dennis Cole.
IV.

Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, August 4,
2009.

V.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at 6:38 p.m.

