Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

September 14, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held September 13, 2011 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Malpiede; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen.
Directors Anderson and Riley

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover,
Martell Dyles, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Mike Gil, Gary Googins,
Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla
Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Doug
MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Greg Smith,
John Tarbert, Christina Tubb and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Kevin Abels – FRESC, Howard Alton – ATU 1001, Greg Amparano –
DTP, Joe Anzures – Anzures & Associates, Gus Avila, Celina Benavidez
– Celina Inc., William Cash – CDC, Chris Cruz – Celina Inc., Dwight
Cunningham – Advance Network Solution, Selena Dunham – Classique
LLC., Philippe Gervaise – ACS, Matthew Helfant – Douglas County,
Kris Korteweg – Lamar Advertising, Claudine Minor – Minor
Construction, Massimo Rolle - ACS, Chris Stoneman – iCAST, Landri
Taylor – Urban League, Katrina Wert – CCP/WIN,

Call to Order:
I.

****
Committee Chair Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

WIN Update
 WIN Network Update
Kenn Hardin gave a brief update of the WIN program and noted that there was a
small group of the WIN planning team in attendance. One key member of that group
is Katrina Wert from the Community College of Denver.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 2 of 3

Katrina Wert explained that the WIN program has three different training programs
such as community based organizations, community technical colleges and industry
training providers. We are currently developing a fourth training option which will be
for small businesses. We will continue to accept new applications as programs
express interest and again these programs are providing specific training resources,
supportive services and workplace readiness resources to help strengthen the
network.
Kenn Hardin explained that General Manager Washington put together an excellent
team to help the planning team direct, guide and add dimension to the WIN program.
That team is the WIN Executive Steering Committee who is represented this evening
by Landri Taylor of the Urban League of Metropolitan Denver. Landri is a former RTD
Board member.
 WIN FFGA Presence
Kenn Hardin noted that the WIN program candidates that were able to attend the
FFGA Signing Ceremony experienced an amazing opportunity to hear from FTA
Administrator Rogoff in a separate meeting.
Chair Kemp added that he had the privilege to go with the WIN participants and
General Manager Washington to speak with Administrator Rogoff as to what the WIN
participants will be doing and where they come from in the community. Each person
gave their individual background and explained how this program is helping them to
get into a good solid job that will help not only them, but their families and future
families. Chair Kemp explained that he felt he was part of the first WIN programs
back in the 1970’s. After getting out of the Army he drifted to Colorado and had no
idea what Colorado was about, but thought it would be a great place to settle down.
One of the very first places he applied was at RTD and was hired on immediately as a
body shop helper mechanic. From there, he worked his way up into the Management
Trainee Program in the early 1980’s and eventually went to the private sector.
Today, he represents the community with his fellow Board members for RTD which
demonstrates what a quality transportations system is and what it can be through
the innovative thinking of good stewards like the staff that we currently have.
Kenn Hardin added that because of the FFGA event, RTD has been approached by a
number of contractors who would like to work with us.
 WIN Contractor Update
Kenn Hardin mentioned that a few months ago we invited the contractors come to
RTD to introduce them to the WIN program and have received a number of responses
of contractors who are interested in the program. They like the philosophy, our
standards, and what RTD is offering with the WIN program.
II.

WIN Pilot
 Candidate Overview

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on September 13, 2011
Page 3 of 3

Kenn Hardin explained that we have had 25 referrals from our network partners as
well as another 7 from community resources. There were a total of 32 candidates
which included 3 women.
 Pilot Schedule
Kenn Hardin noted that we accepted all the referrals from training partners in August.
We will be conducting interviews this week and we have 10 positions that will begin
at the end of September through the end of the year. We are trying to accommodate
the construction schedule and to integrate the candidates into the various projects as
the projects start. This group will go through a career panel to help transition these
employees and to get them fully prepared for interviews and to get them ready to
take on these positions that are offered. They will be fully ready for success when
they walk out into the work force.
Director McMullen indicated that he was very thrilled with this program, and added
that he knows what it is like to be left out. This is what a public agency should be
doing and we are doing it, and I am very proud of us.
Director Deadwyler added that this is a great way for RTD to give back to the
community.
Director Cohen mentioned that he is honored to be involved in this program and a
part of this agency.
Committee Chair Malpiede noted that when she thinks of the WIN program she thinks
of three things: collaboration, inclusivity and empowerment.
General Manager Washington reminded the Board of the national importance FTA
Administrator Rogoff has put on this program which resulted in one of our
construction workers being asked to go to Washington to sit in the First Lady’s box
last week during the President’s speech. That person was from Denver Transit
Partners as well and the national recognition showing that we are putting people to
work is something that will lead to dollars in finishing FasTracks. Our dual objective is
putting people to work to change lives and reverse the cycle of poverty and to
demonstrate to our federal friends that we are ready to put people to work on jobs. If
they help fund our construction ready projects that we will put people to work
immediately.
III.

Next Meeting Date – November 15, 2011

IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:00 p.m. to the Operations and Customer Service
Committee.

