Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
REMOTE MEETING
August 13, 2020 at 11:30 AM
720-443-6193
Meeting ID: 916 748 8#

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede
I.

Call to Order

II.

August Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

1.

Enhancing Meeting Efficiency

2.

Reimagine RTD

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - August 18, 2020
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
None

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Cook
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Catlin

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 21, 2020 and Special Board Meeting
Minutes of August 7, 2020

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent

XII.

Recommended Action
A.

Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

It is recommended by the Communications & Government Relations Committee and
the Nominating Committee of the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors reappoint two members of the Committee to an additional threeyear term, appoint three new members to the Committee to three-year terms,
appoint one new member to the Committee to a two-year term, and appoint one
member to a one-year term.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #5 -Effective Communications & Community Outreach
B.
Award of Wagon Road, Broomfield and Evergreen Contracted FlexRide
Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a
contract with Via Mobility Services (Via) for the provision of contracted Wagon
Road, Broomfield and Evergreen FlexRide transit services. This contract is for two
years, with no option years.
The first-year contract amount for service is
$981,288 and the second-year is $894,366 for a total not-to-exceed amount of
$1,875,654. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an
amount estimated to be $113,305 for contract year one and $106,010 for contract
year two, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $219,316 for the two-year contract

term. The total two-year not-to-exceed amount for the FlexRide service and fuel is
$2,094,970.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
XIII.

Executive Session
None

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.3.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: August 6, 2020

From:

Barbara G McManus,
Board Office

GM

Executive

Manager,

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2020
Enhancing Meeting Efficiency

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Options for Enhancing Meeting Efficiency

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.3.1.a

Options for Enhancing Meeting Efficiency

•

•
•

Consider separating the “information” items to a weekly emailing to the Board. Perhaps
Wednesdays. Have a half page “executive summary” on top of each item that, in a few
sentences, gives the subject and conclusion of the document. “Cliff Notes” if you remember
them.
Make no reference to the Information Mailing items on the board or committee agendas when
they are mailed.
Aggressively move as many items as possible from board/committee agendas to the Information
mailing.
Pending approval of this item, the Department will begin to route information items through the
Executive Office, which will compile the items into a single document and submit it to the Board
Office. The Board Office will distribute the document to the Board on Wednesdays and post on
the Board’s Meeting Portal website for public consumption. For the sake of consistency, the
Board Office will also work with the Departments to develop a template for the individual
information items.

Committee Agendas:
•

Place the RTD staff member’s name responsible for presenting or introducing the item as part of
the listing.
Current practice as of the August 4 meeting cycle.

•

Set a time limit on each item for staff to follow, and print the number of minutes allowed beside
the name. Limit presentations by PowerPoint to ten slides.
Current practice as of the August 4 meeting cycle.
Additionally, the Board Office is coordinating with the Departments to determine whether the
Operations & Customer Service and Finance, Administration, & Audit Committees can be
decoupled. Due to certain reporting constraints, the Finance Committee cannot be held earlier
than the second week in the monthly meeting cycle.

Board Agendas:
•

Move all action items from committees to the board to a “consent agenda” section. Any items
not removed from a consent agenda by a board member can then be voted on by the board as a
whole by a voice vote.
This couldn’t be done without a change to Bylaws, and often Directors vote no on items
specifically to encourage discussion during the Board Meeting.

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: Options for Enhancing Meeting Efficiency (4293 : Enhancing Meeting Efficiency)

Overall:

1.3.1.a

•

The board member removing the item from consent agenda can then ask questions, and the
chair then calls for a vote after all questions are answered.
The unanimous consent calendar process is current practice.

•

The “alternatives” to the requested action section is no longer used.
This has become obsolete and is being removed on recommended action templates.

•

When making presentations to committees or board meetings, constantly reference the page
number you are on to help all follow you.
Will require minor staff training. During remote meetings, Board members and staff should refer
to the consolidated agenda. During in-person meetings, Board members and staff should refer
to the agenda for the individual committee, since eBoardroom (the voting software used in
RT&D) launches one meeting at a time and only shows the agenda for that particular meeting.

•

I’d like us to explore ending the “live” public comment section and have a staff member read
into the record up to 3 minutes of comments submitted by any and all means. When we return
to “live” meetings, this would, of course, end.
Would require Board buy-in before implementation, and that seems unlikely at this time.

•

Delete “Retiree Awards” from board agendas until we return to in-person meetings.
This can’t be removed due to the Order of Business required in the Bylaws, but the Board Office
will indicate “none” until in-person meetings resume.

•

Remove “N Line Updates” from the “Old Business” category. I always discuss N Line in the GM’s
report.
Current practice as of August.

Future thoughts:
•

I would like a meeting with our senior IT professionals to discuss with Barbara and me any
alternative platforms for our meetings that might be more successful.
The Board Office is looking into other options (such as Teams Live Event) and will report back as
soon as possible. GM Ballard is committed to providing the resources necessary to implement
this on an expedited timeline.

•

The most important step that could be taken is to change the bylaws from all committees being
meetings of the whole board, to smaller groups of five or less, depending on the complexity of
the topic. We should look for opportunities to encourage this if we want to permanently build in
a smoother and superior committee structure.

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Options for Enhancing Meeting Efficiency (4293 : Enhancing Meeting Efficiency)

General Notes:

1.3.1.a

Attachment: Options for Enhancing Meeting Efficiency (4293 : Enhancing Meeting Efficiency)

There seems to be some momentum behind this among Board members. This would require a
supermajority vote (10+ out of 15).

Packet Pg. 7

2.12.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: July 29, 2020

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:

July 29, 2020

Board Meeting Date: August 18, 2020

Subject:

Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Communications & Government Relations Committee and the Nominating
Committee of the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint two
members of the Committee to an additional three-year term, appoint three new members to the
Committee to three-year terms, appoint one new member to the Committee to a two-year term, and
appoint one member to a one-year term.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #5 -Effective Communications & Community Outreach

BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) is comprised of residents
from around the region. Members are appointed by RTD Board of Directors and volunteer their time to
advise the District on a range of transit issues that affect citizens and impact the region.
Recruitment for citizens interested in serving was publicly advertised through the RTD website, local
publications and stakeholder e-mail distributions. Applicants were asked to submit an application
explaining why they wanted to serve on the Committee; describing what unique experience and skillset
they would bring to the Committee; listing affiliations and volunteer activities they believe will add value
to the Committee; and a providing a statement of personal objectives/goals if accepted for CAC
membership.
A total of 35 applications were received. Four current members’ terms expired on July 31, 2020. Two
are ineligible for reappointment and two have requested a reappointment. In addition, there are three
vacancies due to resignations.
The Nominating Committee decided, based on attendance, participation at meetings and maintaining
Committee consistency to recommend reappointment of the two current members who requested
reappointment. The Nominating Committee then carefully reviewed each application received to fill five
remaining positions.
The following current members are recommended for reappointment to an additional three-year term
expiring July 31, 2023:

Packet Pg. 8

2.12.A

Ben Bryan has over 25 years of experience in commercial real estate and currently has a consulting
practice focusing on project management, marketing and operations. He has managed commercial
properties throughout the Midwest and developed a transit-oriented condominium project in Kansas City,
MO. Prior to his work in commercial real estate, Mr. Bryan worked in various public-sector positions,
most notably as the Executive Director of the Metropolitan Transportation Development Commission,
established by the Colorado General Assembly in the late 1980s to develop a comprehensive surface
transportation plan for metropolitan Denver, including rail transit. He currently volunteers with The New
America School (Lowry) and Second Chance Center. He is also working on a Senior Affordable
Apartment project in central Denver. Mr. Bryan lives in RTD District A.
Catherine Sanders is currently employed as Employer Program Manager at Smart Commute Metro North,
a Transportation Management Organization in the north metro area. As Employer Program Manager, she
works with commuting employees to explain RTD and mobility options like walking, biking, and
carpooling. In addition to working through employers, she also regularly engages with the public at
community events. Prior to working for Smart Commute, she worked for the Denver Regional Council of
Governments and Commuting Solutions. Ms. Sanders grew up in Thornton, and attended Louisiana
State University in Baton Rouge, and the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. While in Michigan,
Catherine worked for the City of Ann Arbor's non-motorized transportation program and fell in love with
the challenges of inspiring behavior change in the transportation realm. She resides with her husband
and four children in Northglenn, District J.
The following applicants are recommended for appointment to a three-year term expiring on July 31,
2022:
Travis Duea has over 15 years of experience in transportation operations and is currently a senior
manager for a logistics company providing e-commerce fulfillment and package delivery services. Before
his work in e-commerce, Mr. Duea was a leader at Herzog Transit Services, supporting the 2010 launch
and daily operations of Capital MetroRail, a 32-mile commuter train system in Austin, TX. In this role,
he partnered with transit agency planners to implement off-peak and reverse-commuter rail service,
along with last-mile rail connector bus routes, which doubled ridership by connecting downtown
residents to major employment centers in suburban Austin. He has a BA in Operations Management
from the University of Colorado and an MBA with a Supply Chain Management emphasis from Arizona
State University. Mr. Duea is a Boulder native, a frequent RTD rider, and currently lives Westminster,
District J.
Tony Jackson is the National Sales Director for a firm called Transit Marketing Group. He has been with
this Boulder, CO based company in various roles for the past 11 years. Tony’s daily business activities
are 100% focused on public transportation solutions in the United States and Canada. He is an active
member of the American Public Transportation Association where he has the opportunity to consistently
network with other members and also have an impact on the public transit industry. As a customer of
RTD Tony frequents the A Line to the airport and the Flatiron Flyer to Boulder. Tony is currently pursuing
a Master’s of Business Management (MBA) at the University of Denver. He will complete the program by
summer 2021. Tony and his family live in Denver, District C.

Packet Pg. 9

2.12.A

Andrea Suhaka served on the founding Centennial Council, 2001-2008 and then moved on to serve 12
years on the Centennial Planning and Zoning Commission. Also, in 2007, she was elected to the
Centennial Home Rule Charter Commission. She is a graduate of the Transit Alliance Citizens’ Academy
and was a founding member of Transportation Solutions Arapahoe County. Throughout 2015, she
worked with the Affordable Fares Task Force sponsored by Mile High Connects and continues to follow
and take part in the Arapahoe County Transportation Forum. She is a past Board member of the Denver
Regional Mobility and Access Council (DRMAC). She graduated from Douglass College of Rutgers
University in 1970 and retired from Girl Scouts – Mile Hi Council in 2007 after a 21-year career.
Growing up in New Jersey, Ms. Suhaka bussed to summer jobs in New York City. She is a resident of
Centennial, RTD District H.
The following applicant is recommended for appointment to fill a vacancy for a two-year term expiring
on July 31, 2022:
Joan Lyons is Boulder Transportation Connections' (BTC) Transportation Planner and TDM Outreach
Specialist. BTC is the City of Boulder's Transportation Management Organization. Joan holds a Master's
degree in Urban Planning from Erasmus University Rotterdam in the Netherlands, and a bachelor’s degree
in Political Communication from Louisiana State University. Outside of her role at BTC, Joan has
conducted research on FasTracks projects through the Harvard Graduate School of Design. She serves
on the Board of Directors for the American Planning Association Colorado Chapter, and volunteers
regularly with the Colorado Chapter of Women's Transportation Seminar (WTS), and Bicycle Colorado.
Joan is a daily rider of RTD services, does not own a vehicle, and resides with her fiancé in Arvada (RTD
District L)
The following applicant is recommended for appointment to fill a vacancy for a one-year term expiring on
July 31, 2021:
Danny Fisher is the Training Officer with Serve Colorado, within the Office of the Lt. Governor, where he
leads outreach and training for AmeriCorps programs throughout the State. He is also a faculty member
with Columbia University’s Master of Science program in negotiation and conflict resolution. Danny has
been relying on public transportation for 15 years, while living in Denver, Washington, DC, and New
York City. For the past 11 years, he has volunteered with the non-profit organization Youth Celebrate
Diversity, leading various workshops with high school students and teachers. Danny is a certified
mediator and earned an MS in Negotiation and Conflict Resolution from Columbia University and a BS in
Psychology from Oklahoma State University. He resides in Denver, District E.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact.

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications

Packet Pg. 10

2.12.A

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

2.12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: August 4, 2020

From:

Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations

GM

Date:

August 4, 2020

Board Meeting Date: August 18, 2020

Subject:

Award of Wagon Road, Broomfield
Evergreen Contracted FlexRide Services

and

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with Via Mobility Services (Via)
for the provision of contracted Wagon Road, Broomfield and Evergreen FlexRide transit services. This
contract is for two years, with no option years. The first-year contract amount for service is $981,288
and the second-year is $894,366 for a total not-to-exceed amount of $1,875,654. In addition, RTD will
reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be $113,305 for contract year
one and $106,010 for contract year two, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $219,316 for the twoyear contract term. The total two-year not-to-exceed amount for the FlexRide service and fuel is
$2,094,970.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
BACKGROUND:
Originally mandated in 1988 by Senate Bill 88-164 and revised by other legislative activities over the
years, RTD is obligated to “implement a system under which up to fifty-eight percent of the district’s
vehicular service is provided by qualified private businesses pursuant to competitively negotiated
contracts.” RTD currently outsources approximately 45% of its fixed-route service, 100% of its ADA
paratransit service (Access-a-Ride), and 100% of its general public demand response service (FlexRide).
The total amount of vehicular service currently contracted out is close to 56%.
On June 18, 2020, a Request for Proposals (RFP) 120-FH-015 named Wagon Road, Broomfield and
Evergreen Services (“WGBFEV”) was issued soliciting proposals for the provision of demand response
transit services. The “WGBFEV” service package replaces the current Wagon Road and Broomfield
contracts, which will expire on September 30, 2020, and the current Evergreen contract, which will
expire on December 31, 2020. The service package consists of 8 FlexRide vehicles operating in three
service areas providing approximately 18,777 revenue hours per year. A summary of the service areas
included in “WGBFEV” is included as Attachment A. Responses to the Request for Proposals were due
on July 15, 2020. Proposers were required to provide detailed operating plans for providing demand
response service, including hiring and training employees, maintaining RTD-provided transit vehicles, and
conforming to RTD operating requirements. The contract award was anticipated to be awarded on a
fixed-price basis and based on “best value” competitive proposal procedures.

Packet Pg. 12

2.12.B

DISCUSSION:
This recommendation represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to
Request for Proposals (RFP) 120-FH-015 to provide “WGBFEV” Public Transportation Services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective on October 1, 2020 (Wagon Road and
Broomfield) and January 1, 2021 (Evergreen).
PROCUREMENT:
Two (2) proposals were received from Via Mobility Services (Via) and Denver Limousine in response to
RFP 120-FH-015 for the Provision of “WGBFEV” Public Transportation Services. All proposals were
evaluated on the following evaluative criteria:
a) understanding/approach and organization for
implementation (35%); b) experience/qualifications and safety record (30%); c) price (30%); and d) SBE
plan and goal attainment (5%).
The technical evaluation team reviewed and scored each proposal based on a) understanding/approach
and organization for implementation and b) experience/qualifications and safety record. The technical
evaluation team consisted of Brian Matthews, Manager, Special Services; Erin Vallejos, Manager,
Competitive Services; Eric Castillo, Senior Quality Control Inspector, Maintenance; and Pat Heye, Senior
Alternative Service Planner/Scheduler.
The SBE plan and goal attainment was reviewed and scored by Jose Chirinos, Compliance Officer, SBO.
The proposal pricing was reviewed and scored by the Procurement Department staff.
“WGBFEV” PROPOSALS:
Via - The following is a summary of the strong points of the Via “WGBFEV” proposal which support the
recommendation of contract award to Via:
Facility. Located at 2855 North 63rd Street in Boulder and 6500 Franklin Street in Denver, these
facilities are centrally located in close proximity the Wagon Road and Broomfield service areas. For the
Evergreen service area, while Via is still seeking to lease space in a secured parking lot, they have an
agreement in place to use the facility of the current service provider, Seniors’ Resource Center, until a
new space is secured. All three facilities are already fully functional so there will be no disruption of
service or added start-up costs when transitioning from the previous contracts to the new “WGBFEV”
contract.
Maintenance Program. Via has a well-established maintenance program and prior experience maintaining
the vehicles provided under this contract. The Boulder and Denver facilities already have all necessary
equipment for properly maintaining the vehicles so there will be no disruption of service or added startup costs while transitioning from the previous contracts.
Recruitment and Training. As the current provider of these FlexRide services, Via already has drivers on
staff and trained to provide this service. They have a thorough and proven training program that will
allow them to provide continuity for on-going operations.
Proposed Management Team. Under this team’s leadership, Via successfully delivers paratransit and
FlexRide service for RTD throughout the District. The team has developed and nurtured positive and
productive relationships with RTD, surrounding governments and communities. The following is a brief
description of the experience for the Key Personnel assigned to the new “WGBFEV” contract:
•

Proposed General Manager: Has 3.5 years’ experience as a General/Project Manager for RTD

Packet Pg. 13

2.12.B

FlexRide services and a total of 12 years’ transportation experience.
•

Proposed Operations Manager: Has 5 years’ experience as an Operations Manager and a total of
17 years’ experience within the transportation industry.

•

Proposed Maintenance Manager: Has 30 years’ experience as a Maintenance Manager. In total,
has over of 42 years’ experience in fleet management.

•

Proposed Human Resources Manager: Has 16 years’ experience as a Human Resources Manager
with 13 years’ FlexRide experience.

•

Proposed Safety/Training Manager: Has 12 years’ experience as a Safety and Training Manager
with 2 years’ transportation experience.

Experience of Firm. Via has been providing services for RTD for almost 25 years in addition to providing
other private demand response services within the community since 1979.
SBE goal set at 5%. Via’s proposed SBE plan meets the 5% goal.
The technical evaluation team requested further clarification on a few items which were adequately
addressed by VIA.
Denver Limousine - The following is a summary of the Denver Limousine “WGBFEV” proposal that does
not support the recommendation of contract award to Denver Limousine:
Milestones. Denver Limousine did not provide a schedule as to how the milestones would be met.
Start-up and Transition Plan. Denver Limousine did not provide a start-up or transition plan.
Maintenance. Denver Limousine did not provide a detailed maintenance plan.
Hiring and Retention Strategy. Denver Limousine did not provide a detailed hiring or retention plan.
Training. Denver Limousine did not provide a detailed training calendar or components that would make
up the training.
Management Team. The proposed Denver Limousine local management team did not meet the minimum
qualification requirements set forth in the “WGBFEV” RFP.
Cost. Denver Limousine’s proposed price is $1,167,730 more than the price proposed by Via.
For the reasons noted above the technical evaluation team determined that it was not in the best
interest of RTD to pursue any further action with Denver Limousine.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
RTD Special Services Internal Cost Estimate:
This estimate was prepared by the Special Services Department to anticipate the amount RTD could

Packet Pg. 14

2.12.B

expect to pay to outsource the “WGBFEV” service package to a contract operator. RTD anticipated
proposers would implement a competitive wage structure that was in line with the local labor market
as well as an increase for inflation. RTD Special Services total two-year estimate for the “WGBFEV”
service package was $2,055,233.
Via’s proposed total price was $1,875,654. Via’s price proposal for Wagon Road and Broomfield
matches the variable hourly rate for the rest of the northern metro FlexRides they currently operate
and does not include any additional overhead. The Evergreen variable hourly rate proposed by Via is
15% lower than the rate of the current service provider.
Denver Limousine’s proposed total price was $3,043,383. Denver Limousine’s price proposal was
not considered further since their proposed price was significantly higher than RTD would expect to
pay for the “WGBFEV” service package.
Below is a breakdown of the RTD Special Services estimate and price proposals received.

RTD Special Services Internal Cost Estimate
Total Cost
RTD Estimate

Difference

$2,055,233

Via Proposal
$1,875,654
Denver
Limousine
Proposal
$3,043,383

($179,579)
$998,150

The Via total two-year proposed price represents a $179,579 (9%) savings over the RTD estimated
cost of the service. The Wagon Road and Broomfield FlexRide services are grant funded and were
almost equal to RTD’s internal cost estimate. The Evergreen FlexRide service represents a 17%
savings over RTD’s internal cost estimate. Funds for the provision of the 2020 portion of the first
year of service under this contract were included in the 2020 RTD budget. Funds will be requested
in future budgets for the provision of service in future years.
RECOMMENDATION:
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with Via Mobility Services
(Via) for the provision of contracted Wagon Road, Broomfield and Evergreen FlexRide transit
services. This contract is for two years, with no option years. The first-year contract amount for
service is $981,288 and the second-year is $894,366 for a total not-to-exceed amount of
$1,875,654. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be $113,305 for contract year one and $106,010 for contract year two, for a total notto-exceed amount of $219,316 for the two-year contract term. The total two-year not-to-exceed
amount for the FlexRide service and fuel is $2,094,970.

Packet Pg. 15

2.12.B
ATTACHMENTS:
•

Attachment A (PDF)

Prepared by:
Erin Vallejos, Manager of Competitive Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 16

2.12.B.a

The Orchard
Town Center

144th Ave

The
Grove

I-25

Huron

St. Anthony North
Health Campus

Denver
Premium
Outlets

Washington

136th Ave

Huron

I-25

128th Ave

#
North
120th Ave

Wagon Rd/144th FlexRide
Landmark
Wagon Road PnR
Gate A

Park-n-Ride

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Attachment A (4290 : Award of Wagon Road, Broomfield and Evergreen Contracted FlexRide Services)

Amazon

Washington

148th Ave

Nor t

h

P
st
we

k

144th
Holy Family Safeway
High School

Aspen Creek
K-8 School

Hunter
Douglas
Building 5

US
Hwy

King
Soopers

Westlake
Middle
School

Zuni

Lowell
Sheridan

Hunter
Douglas
Building 3

Main St

US 36 & Flatiron Station -- Gate E

Wadsworth / Hwy 287

Broomfield Heights
Middle School

King Soopers

Legacy High School

136th

Paul Derda
Recreation
Center

128th

Broomfield
High School

Midway Blvd
George Di Ciero
City and County
Building

36

Library

Broomfield Community
and Senior Center
Health and
Human
Services

128

King
Soopers

Walmart

120th
Sprouts

US 36 & Broomfield Station -- Gate M
1STBANK
Center

Jefferson Academy
Charter School

#

Federal

The Academy

Huron
Attachment: Attachment A (4290 : Award of Wagon Road, Broomfield and Evergreen Contracted FlexRide

w

y

2.12.B.a

North

Broomfield FlexRide
112th

Landmark
Park-n-Ride

Packet Pg. 18

I- 7

2.12.B.a

0
Walmart

Bergen Valley
Elementary School

El Rancho PnR

King Soopers

P kw y

Bergen Park PnR

B e rg e n

Buchanan
Recreation
Center

Ke

Su
g
ys

to
n

eD

ar
bu
sh

Dr

r

Bergen Meadow
Elementary School

ck

Ln

rlo
te
en

Pk

Dr

en

Dr

e
gr

n
wa
Hi

er

wy

Hiwan
Golf
Club

Elk Meadow Park
(north parking lot)
Rocky Mountain Academy

y
ld
Ba

In

Ev

Evergreen
Middle School

North
Lewis Ridge R

Green Ridge Meadow Apartments

d

ec
Stag

e
Ev

Taco Bell

rg
re

Post Office

C

w
Pk

Safeway

en

Quarter Horse Rd

Blvd

o ach

lo
r
ve

y

Ln

Palo Verde Rd

Lutheran Church PnR

Evergreen PnR

r

Meadow Dr
ar Creek Rd
74
Be
wy
H
Evergreen

Alderfer/Three Sisters
Open Space Parking

#
North
Evergreen FlexRide -- North

Evergreen
High School

South
Buffalo

P ar k

Evergreen FlexRide -- North / South Overlap
Landmark

Rd

Wilmot
Elementary
Wulf
School
Recreation
Center

Evergreen FlexRide -- South
o
Br

ok

Fo

re

R
st

Hidden Haven

Lake

Lakehouse

Hwy 73

Up
pe

County Offices
Library
Senior Resource Center

d

Park-n-Ride

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Attachment A (4290 : Award of Wagon Road, Broomfield and Evergreen Contracted FlexRide Services)

Evergreen Pkwy

