1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, August 24, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 840 2543 6108#
Webinar Passcode: 1660#

I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call

III.

Recommended Action
A.

Northwest Rail Peak Service Study Budget and Contract Authorities

For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to
implement the transfer of $8,000,000 from the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
to fund the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study (Study) and to enter into all required
contracts to complete the Study within the Board-approved project budget.

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

3.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Northwest Rail Peak Service Study Budget and Contract
Authorities

Committee Meeting Date:
August 24, 2021
Board Meeting Date:
August 24, 2021

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to implement the
transfer of $8,000,000 from the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) to fund the Northwest Rail
Peak Service Study (Study) and to enter into all required contracts to complete the Study within the
Board-approved project budget.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry J. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
In November 2004, voters approved the Regional Transportation District (RTD) FasTracks Plan through a
sales tax increase. The FasTracks Plan is a comprehensive program to construct and operate new rail
lines and improve elements of bus rapid transit (BRT), bus service and park-n-rides throughout the
region. The Northwest Rail (NWR) is a 41-mile segment of the FasTracks Plan. Six miles of the NWR are
in operation as the B Line from Denver to Westminster, and the remaining 35 miles have not been
constructed due to financial constraints.
RTD completed an Environmental Evaluation Study of the NWR in 2010. In 2011 and again in 2013,
RTD and BNSF discussed and prepared plans for the full buildout scenario. This included a double-track
scenario from Denver to Longmont. In 2014, RTD conducted the Northwest Area Mobility Study, which
was a joint venture between the jurisdictional stakeholders and RTD to evaluate alternate mobility
options in the northwest region. Funding constraints impeded implementation of the recommendations
from these past studies. In 2016, with the goal to minimize the overall cost, the Peak Service concept,
in which RTD would provide limited rail service along the corridor during morning and evening commute
times, emerged as a community recommendation.
At the Board of Directors Study Session held on February 9, 2021, the Board received a briefing on the
current status of NWR as part of the overall FasTracks program. Since February, jurisdictional
stakeholders of the northwest region have held several engagement sessions, and staff has presented
discussion items regarding NWR to the Board on multiple occasions. As an outcome of the
presentations, the Board supported staff’s recommendation to work with the jurisdictions and develop
an operating plan and budget to provide Peak Service rail service to the corridor.

Packet Pg. 2

3.A

DISCUSSION
The Board first considered this recommended action during the Finance, Administration and Audit
Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 13, 2021. At that time, the recommendation included a
request to transfer $12 million from the FISA for purposes of funding the Study. A robust Board
discussion ensued pertaining to the estimated cost and scope, with the Board ultimately directing staff
to present an updated recommended action for consideration at a later date. Subsequent to the July 13
meeting, while recognizing that all elements of the scope bring value to the project, through discussions
with staff and the jurisdictional stakeholders, staff has determined that some of the items can be
postponed to a later phase of the project, along with other adjustments, to reduce initial costs. With the
adjustments to the overall recommendation, staff is confident that the overall objectives of the Study
can be met.
With the Board’s approval of this recommended action, RTD staff, supported by jurisdictional
stakeholders, will commence the Study, which will address limited operational scenarios and will
identify: viable vehicle technologies; fleet and infrastructure needs; lifecycle costing; risk and mitigation
strategies; operational rights within the BNSF corridor; and independent capital and operating cost
estimates to support Peak Service operations. The Study will also include extensive, robust community
outreach.
Staff will study these critical components separately, requiring individual project contracts for consultant
services for each area of emphasis, including but not limited to:
• Mitigating impacts to BNSF
• Vehicle technical specifications
• Ridership modeling
• Operations planning
• Staffing support
• Other related services
As the immediate next step, RTD and the jurisdictional stakeholders are finalizing the Scope of Work for
the Northwest Rail Planning and Environmental Linkages (PEL) study, which is a subset of the overall
Study, and an agreed upon modeling and engineering agreement with BNSF. The PEL study will provide
an independent assessment of the feasibility and projected costs and impacts of implementing Peak
Service operations consisting of weekday service, with three trips between Longmont and Denver during
the morning commute times and three additional trips in the evening peak period.
The Study also will support the first phase of the commitment to deliver the Northwest Rail as outlined
in the 2004 FasTracks plan. The Study will examine the potential future integration of NWR and Front
Range Passenger Rail (FRPR) from Boulder to Longmont. The key areas addressed in the Study are:
• RTD operating plans with limited FRPR overlaid operations
• Preliminary design to focus on the NWR Peak Service operational requirements
• Environmental impacts – identification and mitigation strategies
• Identifying key agreements
• Risk mitigation

Packet Pg. 3

3.A

RTD plans to use the Study deliverables as part of future contracts in connection with any property
acquisition, key agreements, and design and construction should funding become available to implement
NWR Peak Service. The following stakeholders have reviewed the Scope of Work for the PEL study, and
these entities will also participate on the proposal review and evaluation later this year:
• Boulder County
• City of Arvada
• City of Boulder
• City and County of Broomfield
• City of Longmont
• City of Louisville
• City of Westminster
• Colorado Department of Transportation
• Denver Regional Council of Governments
• Front Range Passenger Rail
Related to the efforts noted above, RTD has submitted an application for a U.S. Department of
Transportation Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity (RAISE) grant. RTD is
seeking federal funding to match with local funding to complete the PEL study. Both Governor Jared
Polis and Congressman Joe Neguse, as well as other jurisdictional entities, have submitted letters of
support for this regional project. The RAISE grant would reduce the impact on the FISA account
drawdown.
In adopting this recommended action, the Board would also permit the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, to enter into all required contracts to support the Study within the Board-approved project
budget, with adherence to the Federal Transit Administration’s approved contract processes and
budgeting protocols. The PEL study Request for Proposal is scheduled to be advertised mid-2021 and
awarded by the end of the year. Project status and budget updates will be provided to the Board over
the course of the project. The overall Study is projected to be completed by end of 2023.
FINANCIAL AND OTHER IMPACTS
The NWR Study is estimated to cost $8,000,000, to be funded by the FISA account and possible RAISE
Grant, and will include staff and project management time.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

Scope Adjustment Slide (PDF)

Prepared by:
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

3.A

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 5

Northwest Rail Peak Service Plan and Beyond

• Peak Service
• Operating Plan êê
• Preliminary Design
êê
• Environmental
Impacts –
Identification and
Mitigation
• Identify Properties
needed
• Key Agreements
• Risk Mitigation

Phase I of the
Level 2 Study

Phase II (+$1.4M)

Peak Service
• Operating Planéé
• Preliminary Design
éé
• O&M Funding
• Property Acquisition
• Operating Rights
• Service Agreements

•
•
•

Contingency reduction from 21% to 12.5%
Cost sharing
Jurisdictional partners efficiencies

Peak Service
• Detailed
Design
• Permitting
• Construction
• Revenue
Service

Phase III
+$100K

Phase IV
+$210K
Full Service
• Environmental
Clearance
• Preliminary
Design for
build-out

Phase V
+$25K
Full Service
• Build-out
Implementation

(-$4M)
August 24, 2021

Phase II through V in gray may be examined contingent on the results initial Study and potential funding

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Scope Adjustment Slide (4560 : Northwest Rail Peak Service Study Budget and Contract

3.A.a

