2021-08-24
Special Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Julien, are we ready?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: This is Tai-Shrae. We're ready whenever you are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, we're ready to go, then.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: You can start whenever you're ready.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Good evening. I will now call to order the Tuesday,
August 24 Special Board Meeting to order. We are convened as of 6:23 PM Mountain Daylight Time.
I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for
joining us this evening. Please note that the official meeting of the RTD Board of Directors are being held
remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio/video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting will also
be available via RTD's YouTube.
Directors, it is our collective duty to come together for a Special Board Meeting. And this evening, we will
be having one on the Northwest Rail. Please note that we will not be taking public comment during this
meeting.
And members of the public interested in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during
the monthly Board meeting, which is the first meeting scheduled to date. For future meeting dates, please
refer to the Board's meeting portal located at rtd.iqm2.com. Miss McManus, would you please do the roll
call?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
JOEY DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here. That is 15 present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We have a quorum.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, this evening we have one
recommended action on the agenda. And that recommended action is regarding the Northwest Rail Peak
Service Study Budget and Contract Authorities. Do I have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved. Davidson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second. Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movement of Director Davidson and a second by First Vice Chair
Guissinger. Is there any discussion on this item? Director Dishell, thank you for that. What I'd like to do
before we go to the discussion is ask our General Manager to maybe do a presentation that might be
answering some questions. General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you to all of the Board members
assembled. This topic, I know, is one that garnered a lot of robust discussion, recognizing we came
before you on July 13. There had been some modification to the recommendation that we brought
forward, and subsequently decided to come back on August 10, as you know from a procedural vantage
point.
We are now here today on August 24. I believe it's imperative that we share with you all the activities that
have occurred since July 13 relative to working with our jurisdictional partners along the corridor. So this
evening, I am joined by Bill Van Meter, who serves as our Assistant General Manager of Planning, and
Henry Stopplecamp, the Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs.
Mr. Van Meter will speak with you all about the interactions that have taken place in the engagement with
our jurisdictional stakeholders, and then Mr. Stopplecamp will present to you all, in a succinct fashion, the
modifications made to the scope of work that have led to the Amendment, I will qualify it as, in
relationship to the recommendation, being $8 million as opposed to $12 million. So with that, I thank you
for the opportunity to introduce this item. And I will yield the floor to Mr. Van Meter to present the
engagement aspects that have taken place. Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Miss Johnson. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for
Planning. And as she just introduced, I want to give you a feel for the dialogue, the involvement with

stakeholders, and the work that staff did leading to the modifications, adjustments, and proposed
modifications that Henry Stopplecamp will go into in more detail.
So in anticipation of Board direction from the committee that evening, evening of July 13, the Northwest
Rail Peak Service Team had already set a meeting for the next day, July 14, with staff from the
jurisdictions impacted and adjacent to the corridor, specifically Longmont, Boulder County, the city of
Boulder, Louisville, Broomfield, Arvada, Westminster, as well as CDOT, the Denver Regional Council of
Governments, and the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission representatives, to discuss next steps.
We were thinking that it might be towards procurement. As it turned out, it was toward adjusting the
scope, per Board direction. So at that meeting on July 14 with the stakeholders, the RTD Team recapped
the Board's direction, which many of the partners had heard firsthand, since they listened in to the Board
meeting on the 13th.
RTD staff informed the stakeholders that we would be rolling up our sleeves over the following week to
identify recommendations to reduce scope of the Phase I study, and that we would review those
recommendations with them at our regular coordination meeting, which was set one week later. Note that
we've been meeting with these same jurisdictional staff members, DRCOG, CDOT, and Commission
representatives twice a month since May. So our communications with them, their understanding of and
involvement in the development of the scope has been strong for the past several months.
So over that next week from the 14th through the 21st, RTD staff held quite a few meetings and
discussions to identify the recommendations for scope adjustments that are now before the Board and
that Henry Stopplecamp will review in a few moments time. We reconvened with the stakeholders on the
21st of July. We reviewed these proposed scope adjustments with that same team of staff at that time,
spent over an hour and a half going into detail, answering questions, and holding a good, robust dialogue
about the proposed changes.
We then requested the stakeholders take some time, review the adjustments and recommendations from
RTD staff, and provide us with any ideas, input, or concerns by our next regularly scheduled meeting,
which was set for August 4. The meeting on August 4 went very quickly. And the stakeholders heard and
understood the Board's direction to staff, and there was general understanding and agreement from the
stakeholder team with the proposed modifications to the Phase I study, the adjustments and modifications
that RTD staff prepared and proposed, and that Henry Stopplecamp is now prepared to review. That's a
recap of our dialogue over the past month or so, and our response to the Board direction from July 13.
Henry.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: With that, thank you, Miss Johnson and Mr. Van Meter. And I will try to keep it
short. So on page six of the Board packet, there's a one-page PowerPoint. So I'm hoping you have it, or
would you like me to share the screen?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, if you don't mind sharing the screen.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK. And are you now seeing the Northwest Rail Peak Service Plan and
Beyond slide?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So with that, I'll go over the events since July 13. Bill went into the detail of the
meetings, the dialogue with our jurisdictional stakeholders, RTD staff. And so what I've got in front is kind
of how we tackled the elements of the original scope.
The scope's made up of a lot of really good stuff. The challenge is, with keeping of the $12 million, we are
looking at doing a lot of stuff that maybe we don't need at this point in the juncture. So what we've done is
we focused the project down into basically a five-phased approach.
The slide you saw originally was a three-phased approach, which was the study, the going into the final
design, and doing peak service. And so what we've tried to put on the slide is also the full service of what
does it look like, and then which elements do we put out into the design of the peak service? What
elements do we need for the actual construction and putting into revenue service?
And some of these elements are further out. So for example, we were looking at the peak service by
definition is three trains in the morning and three trains in the afternoon. So do we need to model several
different ridership scenarios to see how it would change the ridership needs, number of trains? In the
original scope, we were looking at the full gamut of different possibilities. So we pulled that down a little
bit, and we're going to move that out into the Phase Two portion.
In the preliminary design, we were looking at the drainage, for example, the entire corridor. But if we're
only going to modify where the BNSF is putting their sidings and the station locations, why do we need to
do design across the entire corridor? So some of that will go out into the Phase Four. Some of the
connections with the stations and platforms will go out into the Phase Two on the design for the peak
service.
So we were able to pull out approximately $4 million in the initial Phase One. We put $1.4 million, mainly
covering the operating plans and preliminary design in Phase Two, somewhat out into the peak service,
the service itself, $100,000 there, and a little bit out into the full build-out.
Now, along with that, we also reduced the contingency. So like a lot of projects similar to this, where
you're doing preliminary engineering and design work, projects carry anywhere between 20% and 25%
contingency for the unknowns and to look at other options as we go forward. But by redefining the scope
and keeping it very tight, we have been able to drop that contingency from 21% down to 12.5%.
We've also been working with our jurisdictional partners, looking at some cost-sharing, some efficiencies,
taking some of the work in-house with RTD staff, and then also working with the municipalities. One of the

big ones is the multimodal access to the stations. Who better knows how the multi-access ties into the
stations and local jurisdictions?
So we've pulled that out of the consultant scope of work. And so the jurisdictions will be providing that
information to the consultant for the final report. We're working with the CDOT the Front Range Rail staff
to get a better understanding of what does their service look like, potential service, what does Amtrak
service look like, and bring all that together, and provide that to the consultants at the end of the process.
So those are the key things that were pulled out. One of the things I do want to point out-- we reduced
just a little bit of the oversight of the public involvement, public comment. And then we also, by reducing
the scope, cut back a little bit on the overhead from RTD staff and from the consultant staff. So with that,
Miss Johnson, Mr. Van Meter, would you like to add anything else?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Not at this juncture. Thank you very much, Mr Stopplecamp.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And with that, questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: I had my hand up. should I just go ahead and talk? Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you are
muted. I see your lips, but I do not hear your voice.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam. I did see Director Dishell's hand first, and then I have
you second. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I have one quick question for Mr. Stopplecamp, and that's some food for
thought for the balance of the Board, which is this design and cost is still for diesel fuel, carbon burning,
emitting train system, correct?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is correct.
BOBBY DISHELL: I'll try to keep my comments pretty brief for the rest of the Board. But-- or Madam
Chair, is this time for general comments as well, or should I save those until after Mr. Stopplecamp and
others have had the opportunity to ask questions?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If we could go through the list and then we can come back, that would be
great. All right. Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll do the same. I have a couple of questions, and then I
also have comments. But my first question would be, what percent-- we've had a lot of discussion just
now about jurisdictional stakeholders. I'd like the emphasis to be on "jurisdictional." What of the RTD
district, geographically, was represented by these stakeholders?

I'm just going to ask a couple of questions and then you guys can do them all at once. And how many
potential riders are involved in this? And what percent of the total readership of the district would this be?
And how many meetings have been held outside of the jurisdictional partnerships, since this agency does
represent the entire district? Those are my three questions, and I'll save my comments for afterwards.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: In reference to the inquiries that you presented, Director Williams, I will ask Mr. Van
Meter to address. You're on-BILL VAN METER: Yes, finding the unmute button. I do not know the geographic percentage of the
district that those jurisdictions cover. You have caught me flat-footed as to the ridership projection.
One of the key elements that we retain in this scope of work is a relook at the ridership forecast,
specifically for the three trips AM and three trips PM. And I do have a reference document that if I spent a
minute or two, I would be able to find our current ridership projection. But apologize that I do not have that
pulled up and anticipating these responses.
And I can't recall what other questions there were. My apologies. I was scrambling, trying to find that
ridership.
KATE WILLIAMS: The third question was, what other meetings have been held outside of the
"jurisdictional" partnership? Then I don't need answers to those questions at this moment, but I would
like-- and I think that most of the constituents that I represent would like-- to hear those numbers. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so this could be for Henry or Bill. So as we look at
that slide and we see the different phases, quite frankly, if this project is moving forward-- and this is sort
of a recap of exactly what you said, but just to make sure the public understands-- if the Peak Service
project is to go forward, we will go through all those phases, and we will spend approximately upwards of
$12 million on this design, and implementation, and public outreach, and things like that. It's just that we
are being asked to approve about $8 million today, but upwards of $12 million by the time that all is said
and done to get this project launched. Is that correct?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Madam Chair, may I? The first phase is the $8 million. And that's the
environmental and basic engineering.
To go into Phase Two, and then into the full design and construction, that's more than $12 million. So
what we're looking at is Phase One. Part of that has been put off to Phase Two.
Phase Two is not a $1.4 million exercise, it's a multimillion-dollar exercise to take it from a 30% plan to a
100% plan. Property acquisitions, agreements, operating rights-- that is a major endeavor.

And I don't want anybody to think that if we had $12 million, we could get Phase One, Two, and Three
complete and go into revenue service. It's a whole lot more complex than that. The planning side, and the
environmental clearance side, and so the ridership side, would be the 12. But the actual full design,
buying right-of-way, entering into agreements with the railroad, would add significant cost to going into a
peak service operation.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So given that, it sounds like you would say that even if we did approve-- so let's just
say we approve the $12 million today, which you're not asking for. I get that. But if we did do that, would
we be saving money, rather than waiting until later in the phases to address those phases of the project?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I wouldn't say we'd be saving money. The costs, hopefully, would be around
the same to do that work. But you'd be more certain-- the certainty of whether there is a project or not,
you'd have a better understanding before we committed those funds.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Let me see if I understand that. So you're saying that if we actually appropriated the
$12 million, and we would do some of the other later phase work starting now, actually we would have a
better understanding of the Peak Service project as we move forward, versus waiting for the other phases
to appropriate money to study those phases.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: You would know more information, but to meet the true peak service, three
trains in and three trains out, those tasks-- to quantify what is the impact, what's the risk to RTD, the
community, CDOT, Front Range, we believe we've got enough within the $8 million to answer those
questions. So we could narrow it down to the dollar amount and what are the impacts to all parties.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, and my final question is actually leading off of what Director Dishell said. So if
right now, we're anticipating this would be a diesel-type system, would part of this study in the Phase One
address whether it would be diesel, or it could be electric, or a hybrid model? Is there any study that
would be within that Phase One that we would be possibly approving tonight?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: As of right now, no. And the reason why is the peak service, as presented to
us by the community, was what is the minimum amount of money to be spent in order to provide service?
And so if we're going to electrify the system, there's a whole new design that needs to be done and then
agreements with the railroad. One of the things the railroads have pointed out-- they do not want any wire
within 23 foot 6 inches of the top rail, which means all the structures right now would have to be rebuilt.
So any bridge that goes over the BNSF would have to be rebuilt as part of this project to electrify. And so
going forward, the electrification, alternative fuels, has not been part of the Peak Service plan. Now,
there's no reason why there can't be a separate study to look at that. But that is not part of the Peak
Service, and it was not part of the original corridor for design and construction into operation.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, thank you, sir.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Director Lewis, I saw your stand up and now it's down.
Did you want to speak, Director?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll let folks finish their questions. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, I'm going to go back to Director Dishell, then. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just some comments for the Board to consider, as we have
an opportunity here to lead, frankly. We got a memo back in March, March 13th of this year, that laid out
the subsidy per ride of undertaking the Peak Service as proposed. And there's a reason why I don't feel
that it's necessary to spend $8 million to find out some things that we can reasonably infer on our own.
In 2019 dollars, for the peak rail service given our current numbers, it would cost-- it would be a subsidy-we'd be underwriting $88.01 per ride. Comparable service is $4.94 per ride underwritten. And while these
numbers may have changed ridership, people may move more or less, cost may go up. I haven't heard of
any cost going down. That's a factor of 17.8, which I'm hard-pressed to find a reason why this project is
worth 17.8 times more of an underwriting than any of our other projects and service.
When you look at the cost of commodities such as steel, in July 8, 2021, Forbes reported that steel has
increased 215% since March of 2020. And it's no secret that labor shortages exist. It's a contractor's
market, and we have seen it ourselves how challenging it is to retain skilled labor, and the cost that is
going to come with retaining additional labor So to spend $8 million on something where I know that A,
costs are not going up, B, to the extent that ridership might increase, it's likely not in a factor of 17.8.
The Denver Post article that was circulated by many discussions of equity, where populations are going
to be moving, projected that in 2040 we would have 1.1 million more people in the Denver metro area. It's
an increase of about 30% over our current population. Assuming, for argument's sake, that they all moved
along the Front Range corridor within a TOD space, and all of the users of the Front Range of this new Bline extension, that still would not hit a factor of 17.8 that it would take, that we're saying that this Front
Range, that this corridor is more valuable than the rest of the system.
And you can argue about the numbers, and how many of them would use it, how many of them won't, but
the other reality is, due to land use and zoning codes, all at 1.1 million of those people cannot, without
changes, move. As I mentioned and alluded to earlier, it's also possible that we're undertaking a study
that may not be a policy reality. Our transportation goal is to be all electric by 2040.
So again, we're spending $8 million on a study to answer questions that we already know. And many
people have said, well, that's part of politics. You have to have a really fully laid out plan. But I encourage
us to think about who's usually left out of politics. How did this system of politics as usual come to be,
where we're spending taxpayer dollars to find out answers to questions that we already know, for a
system that's going to be incredibly challenging, not just to pay for initially, but to maintain?

In our August briefing, as of July 31, 2021, we have 11,966 members of our LiVE Pass program. That's
our program for those who are of lesser means. The monthly regional route costs-- a monthly regional
pass costs $200. At a 60% discount, in order to get all of these people to underwrite all of their fares, their
entire regional fare, you could underwrite about six months worth of a LiVE Pass for free for $8 million,
which would be theoretically allowed under our promotional fare.
And you could underwrite 10 months of free rides. Those numbers come out just over $8 million, but you
could underwrite 10 months of free rides for our entire LiVE Pass population.
Moreover, even if the plan would work, we currently hold-- as of 2020, our financial statements show that
we have $3.1 billion in debt. During 2019 and we ran about 15% of our debt service just on interest
payments alone, as an expense. So we're, again, spending $8 million for what? To get updated numbers
to know that this is expensive? To find out that we probably can't issue the amount of debt that we would
need to build the project to spend the $8 million?
So I ask everyone to consider-- yes, there are political pressures here. But we have a fiduciary duty to the
entire region. We have fiduciary duty to ensure solid spending of funds.
So I continue to stand firmly opposed, not just due to my commitment to equity, but because it doesn't
align with two of our strategic plan points. Not only does it not align, but it's contrary to them. One of our
strategic priorities is finances and making sure that we have a strong administration of financial
resources. For the reasons I stated earlier, I'm hard pressed to see how this is a strong administration of
financial resources.
The other is community value. As Director Williams alluded to, it's hard to see that while one area of our
community may find this study to be valuable, or their elected leaders may, it's clear to me that many
others do not. This is evidenced by feedback that I've received in talking to constituents, not just within
the district that I represent, but to all of those to whom I owe the fiduciary duty.
As many have said, they are happy and proud that I'm standing opposed to something that is just not a
financial reality. So I encourage everyone to think long and hard. I know we've had many discussions
about this. But I wanted to lay out some additional numbers and thought process for you all to think about
as we think about the region as a whole, and taking out everything to its logical conclusion, and ways we
chose to spend $8 million-- or not. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It looks like Director Catlin is actually in front of me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, actually, you were first. So go ahead.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I'll let her go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Actually, Director Lewis, if I could go down the line. I'm trying to go through
this process. Please. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I lowered my hand.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Dishell, Thank you very much for a very eloquent
presentation of many of the factors that I've been mulling over in my head about this study. You made the
statement that many of us have come to the conclusion that this would not likely be feasible in the long
run, and that spending $8 million is not a wise use of taxpayer dollars.
Even though many of us have drawn the same conclusions that you have, and I share your skepticism
about this, those in that community have not. And they, quite frankly, do not trust our numbers and they
don't trust the ridership. They don't trust the costs.
And I believe that this was supposed to be an exercise to update the numbers and present the facts so
everybody's dealing from the same set of facts. I'm still torn about whether or not this is prudent use of
our dollars. But I know that it's a very, very vocal group and very passionate group of stakeholders in that
community.
I share Director Williams' concern about the region-wide emphasis on this. And even I stated
emphatically, in our review of the response to the Accountability Committee, that it had too much of an
emphasis on the Northwest Rail and not enough emphasis on the other parts of FasTracks that are
committed to enhance bus service in other corridors. So it all kind of plays together. But I do appreciate
your very eloquent articulation of the facts.
I would point out that if we do approve this $8 million to move forward, it would go a long way toward
building goodwill with those communities in the northwest, even though it does leave out a good portion of
our overall region. But at the end of the day, when we get the numbers-- which I suspect, as you do, will
not prove that the Northwest Rail is a feasible endeavor-- we as a Board have the opportunity to go no
further. And I think if we decide to spend this $8 million, and at the conclusion of the study it shows there
to be such a extraordinary subsidy that would be required per rider, we as a Board have the ability to stop
the process and go no further. So thank you for letting me pontificate a little bit.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, I see your hand is still up. Would you like to go
next, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I would not.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Sorry, I lowered my hand and didn't unmute. Director
Dishell, Director Williams, I appreciate where you're coming from here. But to Director Catlin's point, we
are not voting to build the rail right now.
And I would remind you of a couple of things. First of all, we need to stop talking about this whole
parochial thing, we're all about district, and so forth. Because if you want to look at it that way, imagine
you've got Broomfield, you've got Westminster, you've got Boulder County alone put $400 million plus into
a system that they're told at the beginning, your part of the FasTracks is going to be this rail line.
Then we race to over capitalize the system and build lines with no ridership all over the place. And then
we go back and say, oh, but never mind. We don't want to engage here. In fact, we don't even want to
involve you in getting the numbers and getting the study done.
We save $125 million of that into a FasTracks Internal Savings Account, and sacrifice when we're in
tough financial times, but my point here is we have a lot of districts who have built a lot of capital projects.
And this is not just elected officials, believe me. And believe me, there are elected officials up here who
don't believe that the Northwest Rail should happen.
This is constituents. If you want to come up here and join me and talk to constituents-- and I'm sorry that
is not-- I find it offensive to say that this is an equity issue, because I have ridden rail. And this is not one
group of people here. I think there's a lot of misconceptions about what's trying to be done here.
No one is saying right now that we should go spend $1.5 billion, least of all me. Our capitalization
problem is abysmal right now. It's concerning.
Last week, we started talking about the significance and the importance to try to de-Bruce the system,
because we're pushing off state of good repair. And we don't even have that fully funded thanks to how
capitalized we are. That's a problem, but it's a huge problem from a credibility standpoint that we have not
engaged in taking some steps forward to look at what the floor of this would cost and we understand
where the ceiling may be.
And I would also remind you that when we talk about these ridership numbers, they changed even from
the original vote. Despite the fact that our 2004 vote hit the numbers on the head for the Flatiron Flyer-- in
fact, that's actually beating the numbers-- we have since slashed the ridership projections for Northwest
Rail. Why did we do that? Well, part of it was because there's a choke point and a bottleneck getting into
Union Station from other trains coming in.
So imagine being up here, and being a constituent, and being told, oh, sorry, we've decreased the
ridership, but that's because we have too many trains coming in. It's a hard message to go talk to people
about. So I'm not-- look, I'm all about let's not throw good money after bad.

Let's not go do study after study. Director Dishell, I've heard you say that. Director Catlin, I know you were
just bringing up having some question on this.
I hear that loud and clear. I really do, coming from looking at how overcapitalized we are. But there's also
another thing I want to remind you all of, which is that our staff-- and special shout out here to Mr. Van
Meter-- has worked very hard to align ourselves with the Front Range Passenger Rail and CDOT, and
we've just approved a collaboration agreement. We just approved that as a Board.
And part of that collaboration agreement is working together to understand what some of these costs are,
because we would be an operational partner. Are we going to be able to get federal dollars to come in
and work with Front Range Passenger Rail? And will Front Range Passenger Rail be able to pass an
additional tax district to collect tax dollars and bring that in?
I don't know. I'm not sure of that. But I know that it's worth checking in on that when so many people
distrust this organization. Because we made this vote, got this vote, collected these tax dollars, tucked
them aside, and then won't engage.
And so I just remind you that this is about engaging with the stakeholders. This is about engaging with the
constituents, and doing this in an open way. And I'm very grateful to General Manager Johnson for having
that be a laser focus from the beginning.
And this is about seeing whether we can possibly align ourselves with a moonshot opportunity with Front
Range Passenger Rail and some potential federal dollars. And it is not, tonight, voting to go spend $1.5
billion or even $700 million to get this thing done. We have this savings account. It is doing nothing for us
right now.
We might as well put it to work developing on some community value, as per what we had said we would
do with the Strategic Plan. It is time to start working with our stakeholders, not on their behalf. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Second Vice Chair Cook.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm sorry to interrupt, Madam Chair. Point of order.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: My last understanding, Director Dishell asked the question was this the time for
questions for our staff? And it seems like we're going down a path where this is more a discussion.
Should we go forth with continuing to ask questions for our staff, and respecting their time, prior to coming
into a discussion, and then raise our hands?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, Director Bouquet, thank you for asking that question. That's why
I went back to Director Dishell. So yeah, I say that now's the time to be asking questions. This is our time

to get the information we need as a body to move forward or not move forward with this recommended
action.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Right. And so then, I think the hands that are raised should be geared toward staff
questions. And then we should move forward into a discussion, in my opinion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I think everybody is asking what it is they need to ask. Are any of you
feeling like you need to go back and ask specific questions to specific staff members? Because I thought
that's how people were moving forward. But OK, Director Williams. Oh, you're muted, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: I know. I couldn't get there any more than anybody else could. So for Mr. Van Meter,
unfortunately I have another factual question that he can answer later. I'm wondering if we have looked at
all at what the cost will be out of the FISA to perform similar plans and estimates for the other unfinished
corridors. And are we making any moves to do that? Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks. Mr. Meter, I don't know if you can answer that question now or if
you want to provide that later, sir.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. I love the opportunity to respond later to that as
well. It's added to my list.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams, are you good with that? All right. Thank you. So Director
Bouquet, with your permission, I'd like to go now to Second Vice Chair Cook and ask her for her
comments and if she has any questions for the staff. And then I'll go back around to all the Board
members who are in the queue to ask them.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. I actually had a chance to talk to both Bill and Henry, so my
questions are answered. I did want to add two points to the excellent comments that have already been
made, or points already made. One-- and it was alluded to a little bit by Erik Davidson-- we do have a
changed circumstance that may mean numbers that vary significantly from what we had previously-- I
mean the possibility for a Front Range rail that would add ridership, may spread out costs, et cetera.
And then the other point is we are bound by the 2004 vote to spend the FasTracks moneys collected on
FasTracks-related projects. So it's a little bit of a false equivalency to say that we could instead do an
expanded LiVE program because the terms of that vote wouldn't allow it, as I understand it. So anyway, I
just wanted to say there is that constraint, that we have to adhere to that 2004 validation. Thank you very
much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Cook. And I would ask the staff to affirm that.
And General Manager, I don't know who you would like to move that forward. But I think that might be
pertinent to the group.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I will assess and bring that back to the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you so very much. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. A couple of things-- one, I hope we're not in the process of
spending $8 million just to kick this can down the road again 18 months or two years because we've had
some political heat put on us. But beyond that, I think most of this conversation should have been had 20
years ago, when the decision was made to include this line as part of the FasTracks program that was
approved by the voters.
The reality is that the voters up in Boulder County, in the north part of the district, voted in favor of it. And
there's other areas like Adams County voted against FasTracks. Well, they've got their lines, even though
they opposed it, whereas the people that supported it and have been paying these taxes all these years,
and now we're just trying to figure out a way how to sneak out of our, I think it's a legal requirement, to
finish this project.
And so I don't know what the answer is. If we can combine with Front Range Rail in some way to provide
the service, fine. But that's another one of those Hail Mary long shots. And that's just another reason to
keep postponing something that the people are paying for up north.
It's just simply not fair. And I don't have a dog in this hunt, but obviously, I think that our reputation is at
stake here. And if we shortchange these people, we're going to rue that day.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you, sir. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thanks. I just had one thought. There are a lot of good
comments being made and I appreciate them. I wanted to-- Director Broom made the point that I wanted
to add, one of the points, which is that the FasTracks really relied on the Northwest Corridor in order to
pass.
And as Director Broom pointed out and others have pointed out, there's a huge trust issue. If we move
forward, and are unwilling to even look at this, and take the money from FISA, and examine the numbers,
and do it in an open way, I think Mr. Van Meter and Henry Stopplecamp and their teams have been doing
a very good job staying in touch with the stakeholders and the staff up here. Those stakeholders
supported sticking with the $8 million proposal, and doing this one step at a time, rather than going with
the higher level proposal.
I share Director Davidson's point, which is that we're not saying that we're ready to spend $1.5 billion, but
we do need to get the numbers. And we do need to look at it. And we do need to give it a fair shot.

If we're talking about going back for a de-Brucing election or anything else, our team needs to rebuild that
trust. And I think we're on a good route in many ways, with rebuilding that trust, but this is an important
piece of moving it forward. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, Director Lewis, I have you up next before we start
going back through for a second bite at the apple, so please, ma'am.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to hold off on my comments because I wanted to
hear from the other directors, as you all had some things that I hadn't considered. And so I wanted to
make sure that I was considering those before I made any comments in this conversation.
And I wanted to take the opportunity first to thank the staff, to thank each of you for your commitment and
dedication to RTD, and let you know that I appreciate the work that all of you have done thus far to bring
this conversation forward. I know it hasn't been an easy feat. And I'm pretty sure you all are quite sick of
talking about this at this point.
I just want to let you all know that I cannot support this, and that my "no" is not a reflection of any of the
work that you all have done or any of the comments that you all have brought before us, but really a
reflection of my transit values and a reflection of my own personal philosophy. More specifically, it's a
commitment to not only the success of this agency, but to all of-- to our riders, and I mean all of them, and
ensuring that they all have the transit access that they need to be able to access their basic needs.
As a Board, we've been very concerned about the money being spent in different areas, so ranging from
concerns on spending on $100 K for free rides on Election Night, to the amount of money we negotiated
for our General Manager's contract, and even to the cost of our DEI workshops. I appreciate that due
diligence. And my desire is to apply the same scrutiny and concern to all of our projects, no matter the
pressure us electeds are feeling, and no matter where that pressure might be coming from.
We are all aware of the deferred projects list that continues to grow. And I think it was last month that the
costs that Doug shared with us, that that cost was between $150 to $200 million in backlogs of deferred
projects. And now we're proposing to spend $8 million to explore the potential to build a line which, in my
opinion, buys us more time, but really isn't the answer, really isn't a solution to the problem, and honestly,
is the wrong answer to the question that's being asked and the question that's on the table.
We're investing dollars to not build a train, but to simply determine what it would take, with the current
knowledge that we do not have the funds. And that won't change the constraints, that we do not have the
funding. And in my one-on-one with staff, it's my understanding-- and please correct me if I'm wrong-- that
as you all were having this conversation, the cost to build out this train is $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion.
I agree with you, Director Davidson-- we are sitting on a significant amount of money within our FISA. And
my concern is that we're actually watching our current infrastructure quite literally crumble. And now, this
proposal has come back to us to not only move forward on this, but to do this less expensively, and I'm

concerned about that as well. I mean, you get what you pay for. I think you all know that. I think this is-- I
think we really need to concern ourselves with the people of the district, the entire district.
And I agree with you, Director Davidson, about that-- Longmont, Boulder, and beyond. And I believe that
if we are going to serve them, that we need to determine what their needs are and meet those needs.
And I don't know if that accomplishes this, because we're talking about the mode.
We're looking to spend $8 million to study the train to Boulder, Longmont, which I believe, again, is the
wrong approach. I would absolutely be on board with exploring a community need as it relates to transit
and responding to that specific need, with a mode that meets that need or that addresses that need.
And however, that's not what we're discussing. This is not-- we've talked about this being a new study,
and I would offer that this is actually not a new study because we're studying the same thing. And we're
getting to the same answer, of a train.
And so we're so tied to the mode, even when the data that has been presented before us in terms of the
projected ridership and the number of trips on a single track-- which the single track, you can probably
talk to the residents and the riders along the L Line to ask them what it feels like when the train is
inoperable or running late when you have that single track. Furthermore, this is not the only project within
the FasTracks program that remains incomplete and promised to voters.
So it does, for me, beg the question-- why this project? Why this line? Why not the connection from the L
Line to the University of Colorado A Line? That is less expensive, and it's my understanding from my
conversations with staff that it would not require another study.
While I was unable to participate in the finance workshops, because I'm working during the day, I did
watch them. And it's my understanding that currently, that we're at about 67.5% of FasTracks' revenue
goes towards our debt service. This comes with an awareness that our state is not willing to fund RTD.
Thus, it again begs the question, who fits that bill, that $1.5 billion, that $1.7 billion? I would argue that
we've already mortgaged our future in many ways. And so I'm not saying no to Boulder. I'm not saying no
to Longmont.
I'm saying yes to equity, and I'm saying yes to our long-term success. I'm saying yes to me as a teen
mom, taking several buses to travel within my district for over three hours to get my kid to daycare, and
then myself to school, and then myself to work. Those riders, I know, still exist, not just in my district but in
each of your districts as well.
Those long trips still exist. And as long as we continue to invest in new projects and waste dollars, we
continue to divest in the state of good repair. And I've heard all of us say that. We continue to disinvest in
the communities that so desperately need our services.

Again, I just want to go back to how I believe we meet the needs of our constituents. We should not invest
money in a study that's the same that we know we can't fund. At the end of the day, we know that we
don't have the billions to build this out.
We will need to find-- because we get to the end of this and we understand that we will need to find a new
funding source, and we've talked about de-Brucing, we talked about combining the sales tax. Or the
alternative to that is for that money to come from other places within the agency. And I would argue that
$2 million of backlogged projects is probably enough at this point.
FasTracks was approved in 2004, and developed with the understanding of a world of 2003. And
obviously, things have changed. In 2004, it's my understanding that Bobby was 11. I was a new mom,
and heading to my first, my freshman year of college. And my kiddo's in college. He just started his
freshman year. And I would bet-- and you can correct me if I'm wrong-- that you probably had more black
hair than gray hair in 2003, but it's just a guess. I don't know.
And so I would just offer it to you all that instead of us investing our dollars in this way, that we would
explore what communities need, and respond with the appropriate service, and spend our dollars to
explore those opportunities and respond. I think that's how we truly serve all of our communities on this
important regional concern, and invest in our current infrastructure and assets. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. I would just share a lot of your sentiments as a
single mom that was raised transit dependent and took an hour and a half to get to and from work doing
three jobs. So I understand exactly where you're coming from.
I was wrong. We have three Board members who have not spoken yet. So before I go back around to the
other folks, I'll start with Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I just want to say thank you to Directors Davidson and Cook for
your articulate and precise analysis of what this is. Director Davidson said we're not voting tonight to build
the B Line out to Longmont, but everybody seems to want to think that's what we're doing.
And these arguments about equity are hollow. You have economically challenged, transit-dependent
people that live all along this line. And to ignore them and think they only live in your district is a real
problem.
So all of you directors out there who have a FasTracks line running through your district, thank
Westminster, and Broomfield, and Louisville, and Boulder, and Longmont, because they put money into
the system so that your lines could be built. It's time to look at this, and see if this is a possibility, and see
if we can make this happen. Thanks. That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity and I do appreciate everyone's
comments. First, I wanted it known I support the resolution. I intend to vote in favor of this allocation of $8
million.
But I don't want it to go unresponded to when someone says that the Northwest Corridor has gotten
nothing. The Northwest Corridor has the most outstanding bus rapid transit line, certainly in our system,
certainly in the state of Colorado, and I venture to say throughout much of the Intermountain West. We
can brag about that.
The people at UTA and Salt Lake might not agree with me, but I think we've got a better system even
than they. And it's important to note that we do not-- I believe we do not have the answers to some of the
questions that has been suggested that we already know the answers to these questions. No, we have
some dated information relative to the questions.
We don't have current answers. The numbers that we have, upon which so much reliance is being had-those numbers are older than the entering freshman class at the University of Colorado. So I think it's
appropriate that we examine again and update some of these, and at the same time, prepare ourselves to
build this framework for a hoped-for partnership with the Front Range Passenger Rail, because I think
that could be good as well.
So I hear good points on all sides. I did want to respond to some of them. But on balance, I am in support
of the resolution. And I thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to start off and thank our staff, and as well as
Director Guissinger and Director Davidson, for their bravery. I know the amount of work that's been put
into this. And I can understand that you've been hearing a lot of feedback from your constituents.
I now ask that we follow that bravery now back to us as an entire Board. The more I hear of this
discussion, the more that this study I question. We're about ready to spend $8 million, that the results will
be found in 2023 if I'm correct, or 2024.
A majority of our Board might not even be on the Board if they run for re-election. I would like to remind
everyone that we have eight Board members here who would be up for reelection in 2022. We're about
ready to sign off a check for $8 million for a future Board to decide if this is feasible or not?
We either have to go forward with the study, and say, hey, this is $8 million we're going to spend, and it's
ultimately going to vote for the extension of the B Line, or how in the world do we go back to our
constituents and say, hey, we're about ready to spend $8 million that find the B Line isn't actually that
efficient, that it's going to be a diesel vehicle, that it's going to be a vehicle that isn't going to increase
ridership.

There's just too many red flags with this project, that I think we really should have the discussion that we
as a Board should stop kicking the can down the road or decide and say, this project is not feasible.
Because we are putting it up to future Board members to basically, based on our vote tonight, to decide if
this is a feasible project enough, based on what the staff recommendation will be after this study. So with
that being said, I just want to put that in consideration, and that is all I will say. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Yes. First, I'd like to say that this is the best, most substantive discussion I've
heard on the Board. I'm really impressed with all the comments and the way they are made. And every
person has said something I agree with.
However, I will be supporting it. I don't think we are putting a burden on future Board members. We are
giving evidence to future Board members that they can use to make the correct decision, just as the
voters made a decision 20, what, 18 years ago.
So I will be supporting it. But I really admire the way people have dug in and looked at that issue. So
thank you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Sloan. OK, now I'm going to go back around with
everybody's hand up. But I'm going to go with what I'm seeing on my screen. So Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I think we need to look at what this is and what this is
not. And so what this is, is taking funds that are already raised, and it's in the FISA account, and that is
sitting for this very purpose-- to look at this extension or this line and the other extensions that we do-- I
agree with Director Williams we do need to-- what are we going to do about the other extensions?
And I hope that we will see a design study of some sort for the other extensions. But that is not up for us
today. Today, we are considering $8 million from-- its a little over $100 million that's sitting in that account
for this purpose for a Northwest Line.
Now on that note, this is for what they call a "peak service." This is not the final project, $1.2, $1.7 billion-and I know those numbers have been thrown out there. And I hear the passion of some of my colleagues,
and I get it that sometimes, some numbers like that come through.
But this is for peak service. If I'm wrong, somebody correct me, but this is peak service. That means three
trains in the morning and three in the afternoon.
And that is what we will be studying. That's it, not 1.2 1.7, et cetera. This has a different budget if a future
Board-- as was pointed out-- if a future Board decides that they'll go forward. And this will be, what, two or
three years, 18 months to two years-ish before this study is completed. So there will be time.

Now, as was mentioned earlier, this was a promise made to the people of the northwest that-- now mind
you, this is peak service, but this is an installment on it. This may be even possibly the final project that
we might get to them, that we might only be able to get to them a peak service line. That's possible.
I'm not handicapping a future Board. I'm just saying that's a real possibility. But we made a promise when
this was passed, when FasTracks was passed, to that area that helped us pass this tax to make sure that
the lines were built-- in my area, by the way, Southeast Denver and R Line all the way up through Aurora.
And I suppose we could say to the Northwest municipalities and the taxpayers and the people in the
Northwest, I'm sorry we're just not going to do it.
Now, mind you, yes, as was pointed out, they have a pretty good BRT system. But we also promised to
get them a rail system. So we could say, OK, well, then fight us in court.
Is that really what this Board wants to do? They want to spend the $8 million in court if some of those
municipalities take us there? Do they want to see possibly a breakup of RTD because some of the
municipalities are so pissed off, and some of the residents are so pissed off, that they're saying, fine,
we're out of here?
Didn't we just hear about that from Parker when they did not have a bus, and they were, like, they may
still pull out. We saw a legislator offer a bill. We see municipal elected officials and Parker say we want
out. As far as I know, they still want out.
Do we want a breakup of the district, and lose Boulder and Longmont and some of the other
municipalities? Is that what we want? Do we want to be the Board that visits on a breakup of the system,
a breakup of RTD?
We just heard about the 520 bus, where there's a municipality that says, hey, we really think we should
have this bus. So it's OK for us to try to adapt, to get them their service, but not the Northwest? The
Accountability Committee just did a long presentation or a long diatribe on the Northwest Rail. I think we
need to heed some of the things they had to say. And those elected officials and those Board members
who are on the Accountability Committee are from all over the metro area, not just from the Northwest.
So as we look at this, let's do the right thing. In my view, I think we should spend the $12 million now in
order to get as much information, as updated information as we possibly can. I know they paired it down
to 8. I'm willing to support that 8.
But I think just like Denver-- and I'm almost done, Madam Chair-- just like Denver built a spur in the 1870s
to Cheyenne, it saved the city of Denver, which would have become a ghost town. We need to do the
right thing and build a line. Now mind you, I heard something about steel costs. Well, my understanding is
we would be negotiating with BNSF and using their rail, so we really wouldn't be needing to use a lot of
steel.

And again, this is just peak service. This is not yet the Northwest Rail, which may or may not happen. I
don't know. This is just peak service.
So in sum, let's get the show on the road. And actually, let's get the show on the rail. Let's support this.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Thanks Madam Chair. I'll keep this short. First of all, I just want to be clear-- I
very much appreciate the dissenting opinions on this. I mean, again, I can't emphasize enough how
aware I am of our capitalization right now.
And interestingly, the original ballot language did say that we would, once we completed FasTracks, we
would actually wind down the tax rate to get to the point where it would just be what was required to
operate FasTracks. Now ironically, that's never going to happen, even if we completed all of this, because
we're having a hard time operating with the debt service.
So completely aware of that. And I fully respect the dissenting opinions here. Again, I would emphasize
that the difference is the possibility of working alongside Front Range Passenger Rail, which is looking at
a separate district.
It's looking at a longer rail line. I understand the long shot related to that. I don't want to put words into his
mouth, but it's why I've continually asked actually a number of folks on our staff-- I won't put anyone on
the spot here-- does this actually put us in line with the Front Range Passenger Rail plan where we would
be an operational partner? And the answer has been yes. I very much trust the staff and I appreciate the
work that they're doing on that.
The reason I initially raised my hand is to respond to something Director Broom had brought up. And I
think we've talked around a little bit here of what are we talking about here. If this vote very much is to
study what the peak service and the floor would be, it's not whether or not we'll proceed with this, if we will
have that discussion, I believe it's been asked a couple of times, what does that mean?
So there's an often not talked about part of the ballot language that I think we would want to actually go to
legal counsel, which is the hold harmless agreement that requires us to hold hearings. And we would
actually need to manage the FasTracks Internal Savings Account. And the terrible thing about us being
stuck here is that we're putting money into this account.
And I agree with everything that's been said-- that we have a number of other expenses that would be
nice to be spending on. But we have to be putting into that account, because it is literally intended for the
FasTracks program, and yet we don't have enough to complete any of the projects. So if we wanted to
have that discussion about we're just not doing this, forgetting about any speculation of what may or may

not happen with municipalities and how they may react, we would need to very much understand our
obligations with hearings and how to manage that FasTracks Internal Savings Account.
So I think it's not prudent for us to go into all the details of that and get into the legal aspects of that here.
But I just did want to address that, since Director Broom brought that up, is remind everybody that is
some language. And again, I appreciate the dissension here. I agree with Director Sloan. This has been a
great, productive discussion, because I think we're being thoughtful about resources and dollars.
I would like to just clarify my position that I am a definite yes, of course, but I'm not voting for the rail right
now. I'm voting to work with our stakeholders to do what they've asked us to do in 2019-- look at the peak
service plan, and tell them with the floor of the cost is, and let them be involved in setting it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd just like to remind everybody that back in 2002 and 2003,
when RTD was looking at this system, they didn't have $12 billion in the bank. They didn't have a
guarantee from the federal government that they were going to put several billion into the system to help
finance it.
I spent 50 years financing projects that municipalities and other entities wanted, but they didn't have the
money for it. But they had to spend money on the front end to get the information they needed, then to
find a way to raise more money to get everything done. And that's what we need to be looking at, is how
are we going to finish all of the FasTracks projects and get it done?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I think Director Cook brought up the fact that these are FasTracks dollars
and they should be spent toward FasTracks program. But I also need to remind everybody here, and at
the risk of sounding like a broken record, the FISA account was created 10 years after the FasTracks
vote, and it diverted money from rubber tire service, from that which was promised in FasTracks-enhanced bus service. And for areas like mine, that's really important. And I am leaning toward approving
this $8 million in moving forward to answer some of the questions that number one, the information that
we have is stale, and number two, to build credibility with our stakeholders.
That being said, there's another over $100 million in the FISA account, and there is nothing in my mind
that would say we could not spend it on some further investigation of enhanced bus service in some of
those other underserved areas. That was promised in the FasTracks plan along with the corridors. So I
would suggest that we shouldn't decide this today, but perhaps we could really take an honest look at
some other opportunities to provide some of the enhanced bus service that was proposed in the 2004
FasTracks plan. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. I see no one else, so I'm going to take the privilege of
closing out this discussion. But first, I want to just say thank you to this Board. I think this shows the value
of an elected Board by the constituents who are sitting here tonight, speaking about the issues that affect
our communities, and that we think regionally together for the good of the district.
We have an amazing staff of experts, who've brought to us the best information they have for us to move
forward. I said at the very beginning of this that we have old data and our community is changed
drastically. And now that the preliminary numbers have come out from the census, really a big issue for
us is gentrification, and who has been moved out into the furthest parts of our community to pay the most
to come in, to get paid the lowest wages? And that has always been a big concern for me.
We've made a commitment when we passed FasTracks that this was something we would be working on.
We did make a promise to the Northwest region. But there is old data, and there is extreme power in
information for a new day, and to understand where we are and what we need to do to move together and
to collaborate.
Because I think it is exciting that for the first time, we may have some really amazing options to
collaborate with the Front Range Rail. I mean, I just think there are so many possibilities. But for me, I
think that this is a commitment that I made several times and I will be supporting this resolution this
evening.
So with that, we have a motion on the floor for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager
and CEO, or her designee, to implement the transfer of $8 million from the FasTracks Internal Savings
Account, the FISA, to fund the Northwest Rail service study and to enter into all required contracts to
complete the study within the Board-approved project budget. I had a movant of Director Davidson and a
second of First Vice Chair Guissinger. Are there any no's on this Amendment?
OK, I see Miss McManus, if you could help me with this, please. I see Director Dishell.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see Director Lewis's virtual hand up. I see Director Bouquet's hand.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I think that is it. That's what I'm seeing. Is that what you're seeing?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I see those three.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So with that in order, I have 12 yeses and three noes, three being
Director Dishell, Director Lewis, and Director Bouquet. Am I correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, then the motion passes. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Are there
any other matters to come before this Board? OK, seeing no other matters before us in the Special Board
Meeting, I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second Rosenthal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movement of Director Buzek and a second of Director Rosenthal.
Any no's?
KATE WILLIAMS: Can we have a discussion about it?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We could. With no other folks in the queue, I'm adjourning our meeting as of
7:41 PM. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Have a wonderful evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good night.
Thank you, good night.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, everyone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

