Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, November 3, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

November 3, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on November 3, 2009 at
5:33 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair McMullen, Vice – Chair O’Boyle, Director Bagley, Director Brohl,
Director Busck, Director Chacon, Director Christopher, Director Cohen,
Director James, Director Pulliam, Director Tobiassen and Director
Tayer.
Directors Kemp, Martinez and Daly

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Kevin Diviness, John Dawson, Tim Stokes, Bill Sirois,
Rolf Asphaug, Jennifer Ross-Amato, Phil Washington, Marla Lien, Larry
Warner, Bill Van Meter, Dave Genova, Derrick Black, Bruce Abel, Dave
Shelley, Scott Reed, Greg Fisher, Susan Cohen, John Tarbert, Daria
Serna, Pauletta Tonilas, Jim Starling, Terry Howerter, Paula Perdue,
Lisa Trujillo, Brian Middleton, Pranaya Shrestha, Christian Reitter and
Tim Stokes.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Tom Ashburn – CAC, Lisa M. Negri – LTE,
John Peterson – LTE, Tommi Himmel, Richard Himmel, Hal Stuber –
Walsh, Sharon Terranova – DRCOG.
****

Call to Order

Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

Phil Washington, Interim General Manager, commented on the results of the RTD/ATU
arbitration. He them introduced Rolf Asphaug and Jennifer Ross-Amato from the Legal
Department to give a brief overview.
The State granted the Union’s request for binding
interest arbitration which is arbitration to decide terms of a new collective bargaining
agreement as opposed to grievance arbitration under an existing agreement.
The arbitrator awarded a new three year contract which will expire at the end of February
2012. Four key wins: wages, health and welfare benefits, RTD’s proposal to eliminate

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, November 3, 2009
Page 2
lateral bidding between bus and light rail (employees who move from bus to light rail take
their seniority with them), and RTD’s proposal to clarify the minimum guarantee for extra
board operators who do not work on a Holiday.
RTD lost the proposal to change the way the pension is calculated and the proposal to have
a contract to end in the summer of 2011 instead of March 2012.
Director McMullen expressed how pleased he was at how well it went and thanked
Governor Ritter by going to binding arbitration because no service was cut.
Director Tayer thanked all who were involved for their efforts.
Interim General Manager, Phil Washington thanked the team for a great job.
Director Cohen commended everyone in the District who kept things moving during the
storm. He tipped his hat to all involved for making it as smooth as possible. He wanted it
to be noted that the team did a tremendous job last week.
Chair McMullen asked that the CAC update be discussed next.
Tom Ashburn, CAC Co-Chair – handed out a letter that was promised a couple months ago
and gave a brief update. The CAC continues to keep abreast of what is going on. They
recommend doing more outreach to keep the public aware and to also use social media.
Pauletta Tonilas added that they have worked extensively on social media.
Scott Reed, they have been working diligently toward having an RTD presence in the social
media through brainstorming session with A lime Marketing, IT and Marketing. Videos have
been available on You-Tube for two years. The biggest issue is resources.
I.

Recommended Action:
Chair McMullen recommended adopting items A thru F with one vote.
A. Approval of Sixth Year (2010) Contract Amendment to Jacobs Engineering for
FasTracks Program Support Services to Consultant (PSC)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the fifth year
contract award to Jacobs Engineering, in the amount of $19,209,117 for
Program Support Services Consulting for FasTracks for the year 2010. Funds
for the award are contained in the 2010 FasTracks budget.
B. Approval of Sixth Year (2010) Contract Amendment to Delcan for FasTracks
Quality Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to approve the sixth year

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, November 3, 2009
Page 3
contract amendment for Delcan in the amount of $600,000 for Quality
Management Consulting Services for FasTracks for the year 2010. Funds for the
amendment are contained in the 2010 RTD FasTracks Budget.
C. Approval of Sixth Year Contract Award to Strategic Community Partners for the
FasTracks Public Information/Involvement Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the sixth-year
contract award to Strategic Community Partners, the current FasTracks Public
Information/Involvement Consultant, in the amount of $1,050,464 for Public
Information/Involvement, Communications and Public Outreach consulting
work for FasTracks for the year 2010. Funds for the award are contained in
the 2010 FasTracks Budget.
D. Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultant (FRSC) for
FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the Contract
Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultant (FRSC), in the amount of
$908,712 bringing the total authorized contract value to $30,570,017. Funds
for the contract are contained in the 2010 Recommended Budget for FasTracks.
E. Authorization to the General Manager for Contract Amendment for FasTracks
Environmental Contract with Walsh Environmental Scientists and Engineers, LLC
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to amend work order contract
15-DO-037 with Walsh Environmental Scientists and Engineers, LLC for an
additional $5,000,000 to a revised not to exceed amount of $8,000,000. It is
also recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General
Manager authority to amend this contract as necessary to address FasTracks
environmental remediation/clean-up issues to avoid or minimize project impacts
and schedule delays due to environmental issues. RTD will continue to report
extensively to the board including the regular monthly reports and periodic
updates to the Board committees. Major decisions will be discussed with the
Board prior to action.
F. Authorization to the General Manager for Contract Amendment for FasTracks
Environmental Contract with LT Environmental, Inc.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to amend work order contract
15-DO-007 with LT Environmental, Inc. for an additional $5,000,000 to a revised
not to exceed amount of $8,000,000. It is also recommended that the Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager authority to amend this contract
as necessary to address FasTracks environmental remediation/clean-up issues to
avoid or minimize project impacts and schedule delays due to environmental

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, November 3, 2009
Page 4
issues. RTD will continue to report extensively to the board including the regular
monthly reports and periodic updates to the Board committees. Major decisions
will be discussed with the Board prior to action.
Chair McMullen asked about LT Environmental and their DBE status. Dave
Genova shared that if a contractor was a DBE contractor at the beginning of their
contract and if they graduate for whatever reason, we are still allowed to take
100% of their work as allowable towards our DBE goal.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
items A thru F to the full board at the
November 17, 2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Budget Transfer for FasTracks Communication System Upgrades
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the transfer of up to $3.8 million from the FasTracks Light
Rail Maintenance Facility Expansion capital project to the FasTracks System
Improvements capital project to fund improvements to the existing light rail
communications system to accommodate West Corridor construction. Funding
for this project is included in the 2009 Amended Budget for the FasTracks Light
Rail Maintenance Facility Expansion capital project.
Rick Clarke indicated this is an accounting change. This money that was leftover
after TREX closed out their budget - 3.8 million goes from TREX leftover to Elati
Power upgrade and 3.8 million goes from Elati Power upgrade to communications
interface on West Corridor.
Director Brohl asked if communications work was already in the plan for the
West Corridor or is this a new functionality that was not anticipated to be part of
the West Corridor.
Rick answered that originally we wanted to do a communication system on the
West Corridor but because of the budget we cut it out. Using 3.8 million to
restore some of the communications on West Corridor that is not currently there
right now. Adding this back in was a first priority if additional funding was
found.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the November

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, November 3, 2009
Page 5
17, 2009 Board Meeting.

II.

SECOND:

Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates


CAC Update
This was completed at the beginning.



West Corridor
Bill Van Meter and Jim Starling presented a slide presentation to show the
work being done on the West Corridor. The presentation consisted of
updates in three areas: Jeffco to Fed Center, Fed Center to Sheridan and
Sheridan to Auraria.
The presentation is available as an attachment in the minute book.
Phil Washington mentioned they are still working in a couple issues: the
Jeffco IGA and the various property acquisitions. Phil also acknowledged Jim
Starling for is work on this corridor. Jim has taken charge and has done an
outstanding job.
Director Cohen wanted to remind everyone that the Dennis Cole dedication
ceremony and plaque presentation is taking place on November 5, 2009 at
3:00 pm at the McCaslin Bridge.



APE (no backup)
Rick Clarke and Bill Van Meter talked about the Annual Program Evaluation
and Roger Sherman talked about the political process leading up to the
board’s decision to go or not to go for the 2010 tax increase.
Rick indicated that we are on schedule with all activities. Going to complete
capital cost estimates by end of November. This information is used as input
for the full financial plan. Moving forward he personally thinks estimates are
more and more reliable every year.
Bill Van Meter – we have briefed the board on the scenarios and plan to
present them to the board at the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting on
January 5, 2010. They have received a very good response from all
organizations. Patty Silverstein is going to facilitate the meetings.
Director Busck asked about the commodity side and how we are going to
evaluate that side.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, November 3, 2009
Page 6

Rick answered that we want to be reasonably conservative on cost. They are
working closely with Chief Economist for AGC and think estimates are fairly
consistent. The sooner we can get these projects out to bid the more
certainty we have.
Director O’Boyle asked if there is a way we can obtain buy in from the same
groups to our forecast numbers that they are reasonable.
Bill Van Meter indicated that we are working right now with DRCOG as part
of their annual review process. They hire a third party to review our
estimates, escalation or escalation methodology. This review will be done in
Mid-December.
Director O’Boyle was looking for a broader base of folks to weigh in and add
their expertise and forecasting abilities to our cost estimates.
Phil Washington will come back in December at the Financial Administration
Committee with a list of folks as Director O’Boyle suggested.
Phil asked the Design Build Taskforce to review the impact and possibility of
releasing the design build packages for non P3 Corridors before a November
2010 vote if that is when the board decides to go. The thought behind this is
we are concerned about inflation and the affect of increased disbursement of
stimulus funds which will drive up costs in all these areas.
Phil also mentioned coming back to the board with critical adjustments (will
not have until after APE) with price tags associated with each. The board will
then make decisions on them. Staff believes that these critical adjustments
will lower the FasTracks program costs.
Roger Sherman talked about the categories of information that will be given
to the board and an estimated timeline.
III.

Next Meeting – December 1, 2009

IV.

Other Matters
No Other matters were discussed.

V.

Adjourn
The FasTracks Monitoring Committee adjourned at 7:01 p.m.

