Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held Tuesday, December 4, 2007
Page 1 of 5
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

December 4, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, December 4, at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T & D

****
Committee
Members Present:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Chacon; Chair Martinez;
Directors Busck, Brohl, Christopher, Daly, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, Yamrick

Member Absent:

Elfenbein, Kemp

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Marla Lien,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Phil Washington
Susan Altes, Jeff Becker, Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Dennis Cole,
Sherry Ellebracht, Lori Graham, Jennifer Heisler, Daria Serna, Jerry
Nery, John Perry, Scott Roberts, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill
Sirois, Errol Stevens, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Joe Smith, Bill
Van Meter, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Howard Alton (ATU 1001), Paul Forster, Karen Morales, Roger
Sherman, Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Jeff Lieb (Denver
Post), Steve Roberts (Systra Consulting), Cliff Dodge (Face the
State.com), David Kenney (TKG), Ben Kelly (TKG), Robin Knieln
(FRESC), Brian Murphy (BT), Bill Roettker (Sierra Club), David
Minshall, Max Tyler, Philip Hernandez, Steve Fesch, Bob Hoban,
Bobby Baumgartner, Derek Keolmel, Tedd Sullivan, Jeff Wustendorf,
Janet Treno, Ray Stutz, Jessica Guerrero, Galen Foster, Daniel
Gallegos, Kim Snyder, Jackie Snyder, Linda Wambolt (Colorado
Property Rights Coalition), Pat Crespin, Tom Wambolt (Colorado
Property Rights Coalition)

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:05 p.m.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, December 4, 2007
Page 2 of 5

I. Recommended Action
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors re-appoint four members of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee
(CAC), Tom Asburn, Thomas J. Burns, Charles Choi and Ken Hotard, for a threeyear term.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion to
Re-appoint the four members to the
FasTracks Citizen Advisory Committee
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director Pulliam indicated there is a need
to make this committee more
representative of the District, especially
Jefferson County. He will be pushing for
this going forward.
The motion passed twelve in favor
(Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Martinez, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick)
and 0 against. Director Brohl arrived late
and Directors Elfenbein and Kemp were
absent.
Chair Chacon declared the motion
PASSED.

II. FasTracks Opinion Survey
David Kenney with the Kenny Group presented the results of the FasTracks
survey which was a phone survey taken of Denver metro residents from October
30-November 4, 2007. Results from these findings can be found in the
FasTracks Minutes Notebook located in the Board office.
Director Tayer requested an analysis of the data which compares the respondents
who answered they are familiar with FasTracks to the response who says RTD is
doing a good job.
III. Public Private Partnerships-Goals, Process and Schedule
Cal Marsella provided an introduction to this presentation which was presented by
Liz Rao. A copy of the handout can be found in the FasTracks Minutes Notebook
located in the Board office.
Director Ruchman asked what was the plan for bringing the Board members up-

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, December 4, 2007
Page 3 of 5
to-speed on PPP, what decisions other groups have made and basic educational
type information sharing. Liz Rao responded they would do it in January when
they come back to the Board for approval.
Director Yamrick wanted to know when her questions on scheduling and fares
would be answered. Liz indicated this would be answered as part of the RFP
language that will be brought before the Board.
Director Ruchman requested a list of the names that were referenced as part of
the PPP team in the presentation. Liz Rao indicated that she would provide.
Chair Martinez summarized by stating that the educational process to the Board
on PPPs will occur concurrent with the indicated schedule on the presentation and
will be provided prior to approval. This presentation provided a high level game
plan. Cal Marsella reminded the Board that we are 9 years and 27 days away
from completion of FasTracks.
Director Christopher inquired if the industry review that is listed on the schedule
involves both domestic and overseas firms. Cal Marsella responded yes.
IV.

TOD Status Report
Bill Sirois and Gideon Berger provided a TOD Status report update of the TOD
which included database enhancements, residential market trends, station area
planning and quality of life. A copy of the TOD status report was provided to the
Board and is available in the FasTracks Minute Notebook located in the Board
office.
Gideon Berger requested any comments from the Board by December 14, 2007.
Director Christopher asked to include information on affordable housing in future
TOD updates.
Director Chacon indicated this was very helpful information-a good document
with good information.

V.

Property Acquisition Process and the Uniform Act
Cal Marsella provided a brief explanation of eminent domain and shared
information about the lengthy process that RTD has gone through. He indicated
that while there are some people who may be adversely affected, Federal
government acquisition and relocation policies and procedures protects the right
of the public. RTD is following those processes and will continue to follow these
guidelines in the negotiation of property to ensure fair market value. A copy of
the manuals titled: “Relocation-your rights and benefits as a displaced person
under the Federal Relocation Assistance Program” and Acquisition-Acquiring real
property for Federal and Federal-aid programs and projects” are available for
viewing in the FasTracks Minute Notebook located in the Board office.
Cal Marsella also explained that RTD is the T in TOD, meaning that we are in the
transit business. There are definite laws around what RTD can acquire property
for and RTD will fall within those guidelines for transit.
Prior to Susan’s presentation, Director Chacon announced that immediately

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, December 4, 2007
Page 4 of 5
preceding the Executive Session, she would make special allowances for three
people from the audience who were protesting eminent domain to speak for one
minute each.
Susan Altes provided an update on the process and walked through the specific
provisions that RTD will follow in this Property Acquisition Process for the West
Corridor. The current timeline we are on is step 3 in which approximately 16
owners have been contacted.
Steps identified include:
1. Initial Acquisition Design/EIS which involved an outreach to the public.
EIS began in 2001 and EA was performed in 2006.
2. 65% Design—During this phase, a certification of property is required.
3. Notification of intent to acquire—16 property owners were notified in
September, 2007 of notification of intent. RTD uses independent
appraisers or Colorado Law allows Property owners may obtain their own
appraisal at RTD expense.
4. Both RTD appraisal and property owner appraisal are reviewed by a
review appraiser.
5. Determination made of just compensation (fair market values plus
damages to remaining property)
6. RTD makes offer—During the process of condemnation, a property owner
is given 45 days to respond. RTD will go to court to request date for
immediate property hearing. RTD is also required to deposit into an
account the amount of just compensation determined.
7. Valuation Hearing- Actual cost is determined by the court.
After completion of the presentation Director Brohl asked for any historical
information around how far apart the initial offers made by RTD and the valuation
hearing. Both Susan and Cal responded we have no statistical history but based
on T-REX, this is generally very close. Marla Lien explained that if the variance
was 30% from last written award to what is granted, the acquiring entity may
have to pay attorney fees.
Concurrently with this process, RTD and the property owner can continue to
negotiate for the property.
Director Tayer asked if there were any parameters that allow us to go outside the
guidelines and what creative avenues we have for working with the property
owners. Susan responded if we wanted to settle over a fair value, we could do
so with FTA concurrence or approval and valid justification. She also indicated
that RTD will work with the property owners on applicable relocation benefits.
She referred the Directors and property owners to the two manuals listed above
for more information on their rights for property acquisition and relocation
according to Federal guidelines and the Uniform Act.

Galen Foster came forth as spokesperson. He requested that all the plain clothes

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting held on Tuesday, December 4, 2007
Page 5 of 5
officers leave the room as he has some stuff he wants to direct to the Board.
Chair Chacon refused this request. He then demanded Cal Marsella, General
Manager, to promise everyone in the room that his corner would not be used for
high density housing with retail or private development. Cal provided an initial
yes response but continued to explain that RTD is purchasing the property for
transit purposes. However, if RTD is approached by a developer who offers to
build out the 1000 parking spaces for RTD with options for the rights above the
space, RTD would consider this request. Mr. Foster again requested if RTD could
promise there would not be retail space on his property. Cal responded no based
on his above response. Hearing this response, Galen requested he wanted this in
the records and pounded on the table as he exclaimed “this is my property that I
will fight for it and die for it. We will become your worst nightmare. Hide and
watch.” Cal tried to talk to Mr. Foster who at this point let out a few expletive
comments and overrode Cal Marsella’s attempt to further discuss.
Chair Chacon declared the public speaking over and adjourned the meeting to the
Executive Session.

VI.

Vote to Adjourn to Executive Session
The motion was made and passed to adjourn to Executive Session for the
purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4) (a) - the acquisition of property for
the West Corridor and C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e)-DUS Contract Negotiations.
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 6:35 p.m.

