1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, June 11, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:13 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:02 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:10 PM
5:18 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:27 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:25 PM
5:33 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:28 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:29 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:05 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:21 PM

Director Menten was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Mathew Cross, Lee Cryer,
Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian
Welch

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Sara Castellanos, Michael Del-Giudice, Leonard Dinegar,
Melissa Dubinsky, Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, Bill Mosher, Skip
Spensley, Joe Triplette, Gary Van Dorn, Hugh K Wilson

B. Updates

• Denver Union Station Update
Bill Mosher told the Board that any members that had not yet toured Denver
Union Station (DUS) and wanted to were more than welcome. He reviewed
a Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the June 11,
2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet.
Director James noted that Westword had an article that suggested the
model trains might be a candidate for the public art program. He
understands that may not be a good fit but he asked for an update. Bill
Mosher explained that the model train organizations are being handled by
Union Station Alliance (USA) so it is not something he has been overseeing.
He shared that there was an update given at the last DUSPA meeting. At
this time both organizations are moving out of DUS; when the basement is
complete they will go back to see if there is an area they can work with. Bill
Mosher shared that the model train groups have set up a committee that
USA is helping with to identify new locations for the groups; there is also a
fundraising effort underway.
Chair Anderson commented that her father spent close to 40 years of his life
working around DUS; she thinks he would be totally amazed to see its
transformation.
Director Walker stated that he does not believe the $662 million market
value include infrastructure like sewer, water, etc. He asked how much has
been spent on the infrastructure. Bill Mosher said that infrastructure cost is
in the project cost of the $400 million; it is essentially the building of
Wewatta, all the sewer and water lines, the sidewalks, the street lights and

the traffic lights. He stated that he would have to get the exact number but
all of the public infrastructure is included in the DUS project budget.
Director Bagley asked if the map that shows the projects underway,
planned, etc. defines the total tax increment district. Bill Mosher explained
that was just the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) District; there
are projects underway that are not included because they are outside the
DDA District. Bill Mosher clarified that this is not a taxing district but a tax
receipt collecting district; the City is taking all the incremental property,
lodger, sales and use tax, etc. and putting those funds into a trust account
to pay off the federal loans.
Director Folska noted that she has been receiving many calls from her
constituents who are very concerned about where the model trains will go;
they are concerned that the agreement stated the organizations would not
be displaced. She asked for additional information on the relocation. Marla
Lien stated that there is some misconception about the agreement. The
lease agreement between USA and RTD did not require that USA keep the
model trains. She explained that when USA made their proposal to the
Board, they stated that they were going to try to keep the trains in the
Station; however, everyone knew that given National Park Service (NPS)
requirements, space requirements, security requirements, etc., that is was
going to be a difficult process. Marla Lien explained that as a result of
bringing the building up to code and some of the NPS requirements, USA
has to bring another elevator and stairway into the basement which cut the
square footage. They also had to put ductwork above which lowered the
celling limit and cut the available space.
Director Folska asked if we knew of an alternative location for the trains.
Marla Lien stated that is something that is being worked on. She explained
that some spaces were offered to one of the train clubs at just cost (no
lease rate, just utilities) and they were not able to accept that offer. These
groups are very small; one is not a legal entity and one only has 17
members.
Director Rivera-Malpiede stated that she also had to speak regarding the
train clubs. She stated that when the Board talked about USA being
awarded the lease agreement, one of the treasures of Denver Union Station
was the model trains. She said that she too has received many emails and
phone calls from her constituency stating that they are heartbroken that the
trains will no longer be in DUS. Director Rivera-Malpiede asked who was on
the committee to work with the train clubs for relocation and how RTD can
help to ensure they will be around for our community. Marla Lien stated
that Dana Crawford and Ferd Belz have taken a lot of effort to work with the
organizations. She reiterated that everyone is working very hard to get

these groups moved but we knew starting this that results could not be
guaranteed.
Director Sisk shared that he is really impressed with the work that has gone
on at Denver Union Station. He stated that he sees DUS as being much
more than a Denver amenity; he thinks this is the core of FasTracks.
Director Sisk is hoping there is a way to share this information with the
constituents. He asked for anything staff could provide the Directors with
to show constituents (slideshow/handout/etc.) that would deflect some of
the suggestions that the money is only for Denver. Bill Mosher explained
that his team works very closely with Pauletta Tonilas and the Public
Information team to meet with community groups. He said that his team is
very available to go out into the community to meet with groups to discuss
the project. Bill Mosher said that his presentation also fits into a “bigger
picture” slide show that talks about FasTracks and the role of DUS within
the system.
Director Bagley shared that in all the project presentations he makes in the
South Metro area, he always has slides that relate to Denver Union Station
that try to encapsulate for the people in his district what is going on at DUS.
He continually reiterates that DUS is the District’s project, not just Denver’s.
Committee Chair Hoy asked if Bill Mosher could provide the Board with an
update regarding the grocery store that was being proposed. Bill Mosher
stated that there is a King Soopers that is under construction.
Committee Chair Hoy reiterated what other Board members stated about the
model trains. He stated that if we can help them that would be great.
General Manager Washington pointed out that Denver Union Station is really
a regional treasure and a regional value. He noted the national significance
of DUS; the national visibility just from the funding piece alone is very huge.
He shared that last week at the APTA Rail Conference during his meeting
with the Federal Transportation Agency Administrator, the first thing he
asked was how DUS was progressing.

• Citizens Advisory Committee Update
Hugh Wilson, Co-chair of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee,
thanked the Board for their time. He shared that the committee was very
pleased to have RTD Service Planning staff come and explain the process for
the development of the initial service changes that were brought about with
the opening of the West line. He thanked Robert Rynerson, Bruce Abel, and
other RTD staff members for coming to explain in great detail the complexity

of making such radical schedule changes and then quickly recognizing that
changes and modifications need to be made to meet the ridership needs.
Hugh Wilson provided his perspective on the needed West Line changes.
He stated that he is very pleased that staff is recommending the
reinstatement of the 87X, 100X and 116X. He outlined some areas related
to the West line and associated route changes that he believes RTD can
improve upon. Hugh Wilson also shared that he thinks it is vital that the
Downtown Denver Circulator route goes beyond Colfax.
Hugh Wilson invited the Board to the upcoming CAC meeting in Westminster
on June 26, 2013. He shared that at the meeting there will be an update on
the Northwest Area Mobility Study and Bus Rapid Transit options.
Director Folska asked how long Hugh Wilson had been a member of the
CAC. He said that he had been on the Committee for about two and a half
years but was just elected Co-chair in January.
Director Tobiassen asked for clarification if the opinions about the West line
and Circulator were the opinions of the CAC or Mr. Wilson’s personal
opinions. Hugh Wilson stated that they were his opinions.
Chair Anderson shared that she has heard much of the same types of
complaints and thanked Mr. Wilson for speaking on those issues.
Director Hoy said that he would be attending the CAC meeting in
Westminster and encouraged other Directors to attend at well.

C. Recommended Actions

• Approval of I-225 Alignment Changes
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve a change in alignment and station location on the I-225
corridor. This change would move the alignment along Montview Avenue at
the Anschutz/ Fitzsimons Medical Campus to a new alignment in the general
vicinity along Fitzsimons Parkway. The station location will also change
from Montview to along Fitzsimons Parkway. The exact location will be
defined as part of a collaborative effort with the City of Aurora, the
University of Colorado stakeholders as well as public input. A general
depiction of the changes is shown in Exhibit 1.
General Manager Washington began by explaining that staff has been
working for some time with the City of Aurora (the City) and University of
Colorado (CU) on this issue. He stated that Montview Avenue was the
alignment identified in the Environmental Evaluation (EE) and was the basis

for the unsolicited proposal the Board approved last year. General Manager
shared that the right-of-way is owned by the University of Colorado and in
order for the alignment to travel down Montview the street has to be
restructured/rebuilt. The original plan was for CU to cede the land to the
City and then the City would cede the land to RTD. All parties involved
have been in discussions about electromagnetic interference (EMI) and
vibrations; there have been many discussions about mitigating the effects of
EMI and vibrations. General Manager Washington explained that as the
discussions progressed, all three entities came to the conclusion that
mitigation costs would be exorbitant and were not in anyone’s budget.
Additionally, even with mitigation, the EMI and vibrations are something that
cannot be completely eliminated.
General Manager Washington shared that as stated in the Board Report,
mitigation costs along with the delay costs would approximately $58-$60
million. He reiterated that we do not have this in the I-225 project budget.
The conclusion made between RTD, CU and the City is that the best course
of action would be a change in alignment that would eliminate the concerns
that we have along Montview.
General Manager Washington mentioned that there was some
communication the Board received asking if we could test the equipment
throughout various parts of the campus. He explained that staff has
reviewed the communication and discussed it internally; staff thinks that
doing this would still incur a significant delay which costs RTD $1.5-$2
million per month. General Manager Washington stated that based on this it
was staff’s recommendation to proceed with the realignment.
Chuck Culig explained that staff did identify some blanket mitigation as part
of the original EE; however, there was not a specific piece of equipment or
location that was being mitigated for. He stated that the train will be
running at very low speeds producing a very low frequency vibration that is
very difficult to mitigate. Chuck Culig explained that if you can get 200-300
ft. from the train tracks than there is no mitigation needed. He stated that
to mitigate vibrations the only option was really to build a very expensive
floating slab. Not only would the slab be very expensive but changes would
be necessary for the EMI mitigation that would add additional costs and the
design and construction timeline kept getting pushed further and further out.
Check Culig outlined the changes on a map that can be found in the June
11, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet. He stated that
staff will be working with the community and stakeholders for a final
decision on the location of the new station.

Rick Clarke recognized that there were representatives from CU and the City
of Aurora in the audience. He said that several RTD staff attended a City
Council Meeting the previous night where the Councilmembers were briefed
by their staff on the situation.
Rick Clarke stated that one of the questions staff had been receiving is why
did not they know about this issue earlier. He said that the issue was
brought up earlier but science is continually evolving; the equipment is
becoming more and more sensitive and that trend is not going to stop. Rick
Clarke stated that the whole science on the impact of light rail on sensitive
equipment is also evolving. Five years ago no one would have even
recognized this as an issue. He explained that as other light rail lines have
been built it has started to become an issue.
Rick Clarke also reiterated that the mitigation costs are estimated to be
around $60 million which we do not have in the I-225 budget. He stated
that staff is working on the engineering for the Fitzsimons alignment; Rick
Clarke said that the exact cost is unknown but that he can inform the board
it can be handled within the project budget.
Rick Clarke explained that the new alignment does have its benefits. The
alignment along Montview would have a speed limit of 15 mph with 6 atgrade crossings. The train would run through the middle of campus so there
would need to be fences, it would cut of part of the campus, etc. Rick
Clarke stated that if the train runs along Fitzsimons the speed limit would be
at least 35 mph. He said that while there is much development in the area,
CU sees this as an opportunity to drive their development to this location.
Rick Clarke finished by saying at this point we are early in the design-build
contract so we can engage in discussions about the changes. He stated
that we can continue discussions with CU but he feels in a year from now
we will still be at the same recommendation but then we would be paying
for the delay costs.
General Manager Washington stated that not only are we working in
partnership with CU and the City; we are also working with the Fitzsimons
Redevelopment Authority (FRA) who is a key player in this as well.
General Manager Washington explained that RTD would be responsible for
paying for the redesign but we feel we can do that within the existing
budget. He reiterated the potential benefits from the new alignment.
General Manager says that as Rick Clarke mentioned, there is a huge benefit
in the train being able to operate faster. He feels that the potential
drawback of moving the station away from current activities is lessened by
the potential for future development.

General Manager Washington noted that the question had come up if other
entities needed to approve the alignment. He explained that we will need to
do some negotiating with our contractors but all parties that need to be
involved are at the table.
General Manager Washington said that at this time we do not know if there
will be any wildlife conflicts being closer to the trail; the City of Aurora has
been doing quite a bit of environmental work in that area so we do not
expect any wildlife impact. Chuck Culig stated that staff would be looking
at that further as part of our new EE.
General Manager Washington stated that the last piece of information
needed to be considered is the shuttle service. He said there had been
questions about people getting of the train at the new station. General
Manager noted that there is a letter provided for reference in the June 11,
2011 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet that discusses CU’s
intent to provide a shuttle from the new station to campus.
Primary
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the
motion to move this item to the
full Board at the June 23, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler asked how far away the train needs to be
from the facilities and what facilities on the map are affected.
Chuck Culig stated that the train needs to be upwards of 200300 ft. He explained that currently the pharmacy building and
bioscience building would be affected by the trains; however,
he believes that the entire swath of land that would run along
the tracks would be affected in future development. Director
Deadwyler commented that her original understanding that
where we are planning to build now would not have an impact
with EMI and vibrations. She asked if it was because CU
wanted to have room to develop that this was now an issue.
Director Deadwyler wondered why we needed to move instead
of having CU’s future development be in a different location.
Chuck Culig stated there is some truth to the desire to develop
creating the need for the new alignment. Rick Clarke stated
that CU’s plans are to develop the Fitzsimons Campus as an
international medical research facility. He explained that they

felt they would be at a disadvantage because there is a lot of
competition to bring in these companies.
Director Deadwyler noted that the letter from CU discussed
plans for development and a shuttle; however, she feels those
are just plans and there was not a commitment. She wants to
ensure that they are committed to these shuttles so that when
the line opens we are able to get the transit dependent riders
to their final destination. She is concerned that the people
that need access to the hospitals will not be able to get to
them. Marla Lien stated that in addition to Rick Clarke’s
explanation of why CU is not moving, CU and FRA own the
land; it is not dedicated right-of-way. She explained that they
are not willing to risk their plans for future development to
give us the land as was the original intent. She said that it is
the goal for us to work with CU to get good results for
everyone and it is there land. Marla Lien explained that the
letter is a statement of intent until CU builds out the campus
and funds service; just like RTD is a governmental entity and
we are subject to appropriations so is CU. General Manager
Washington stated that even though CU owns the right-ofway they have been partners with RTD along with the City of
Aurora and FRA. He explained that this is a case of RTD
working with one of the leading institutions is the state to
make them more competitive internationally. General Manager
Washington recognized that Director Deadwyler’s concern is
legitimate but he feels that when he has a letter from the
President of CU and verbal assurances that he is committed to
a shuttle then he accepts that. General Manager Washington
believes there is a commitment from CU to have a shuttle
service and work with RTD to make sure that service is at the
right level
Director Rivera-Malpiede stated that she is privileged to work
with the City of Aurora and CU on a regular basis. She knows
that they are committed partners in the community. Director
Rivera-Malpiede recognized the need for the change but she is
concerned with the connectivity from the train station to
University Hospital. This hospital primarily serves our
financially disadvantaged community. She expressed that she
needs to be assured that we have the ability to make sure our
community members get from point a to point b.
Director Lasater stated that he does not understand why RTD
has to move and not CU. He feels that he has not heard

anything that satisfies his concern. Director Lasater had
several questions he wanted answered:
1)
Why did we not look at this alignment originally
2)
If we make this change for CU does this open use up to
other complaints
3)
Will the communities west of Peoria now be disserved
Director Lasater also noted that Sand Creek is an impediment
for the people to the north so we will not be benefiting them
either.
Director Sisk expressed his agreement with Director
Deadwyler and Rivera-Malpiede’s comments. He also
requested that there be a statement included in the
Recommended Action that no funds will come from any other
line to complete the new alignment.
Director Lubow shared that she was very excited to realize
that we were getting a possible solution to a very difficult
problem but it was kind of jaw dropping that we could come
up with an alternative so quickly. She asked if she was
correct in assuming that because CU owns the right of way
we would have to do the mitigation or not build along
Montview. Rick Clarke explained that this this case we were
fortunate to have an obvious alternative; there are some
locations that if we had to move it would be very problematic.
He stated that sometimes it is better to be lucky than good;
the City of Aurora owns the new land that we would need and
they are cooperating so all the pieces are falling into place.
Rick Clarke also stated that it is a safe assumption that we will
not get the land from CU if we were to continue with the
Montview alignment and not do the necessary mitigation.
General Manager Washington said that CU, the City of Aurora,
and FRA are our partners in this effort. He views this as a
partnership in making one of our state institutions
internationally competitive. General Manager feels that if we
can partner with our stakeholders all over the region to work
on items that are technically and financially feasible then we
should do so. Director Lubow asked if we would need to
complete another Environmental Impact Survey (EIS). Bill Van
Meter explained that we do not perform an EIS but an
environmental evaluation (EE) since this is a non-federally
funded corridor. He stated that staff is working on the EE and
will bring the results back to the Board. He said that staff has
done some basic field evaluations and talked with the City of

Aurora. Staff does not anticipate any major impacts or flaws
at this point.
Motion to
Amend
Primary
Motion:

Chair Anderson made the motion
to amend the primary motion to
read as follows:

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee that the Board of Directors approve a
change in alignment and station location on the
I-225 corridor. This change would move the
alignment along Montview Avenue at the
Anschutz Fitzsimons Medical Campus to a new
alignment in the general vicinity along Fitzsimons
Parkway. The station location will also change
from Montview to along Fitzsimons Parkway.
The exact location will be defined as part of a
collaborative effort with the City of Aurora, the
University of Colorado stakeholders as well as
public input, and also to include a transportation
plan that will accommodate the needs of
persons who are transit dependent to access the
Anschutz Campus. A general depiction of the
changes is shown in Exhibit 1.
All changes will be made within the originally
approved I-225 project budget.
Director Deadwyler seconded the
motion.
Discussion:

Director Deadwyler stated that even with the amendment that
Chair Anderson made she thinks there should be a plan,
outline, etc. for the shuttle service before the Committee
votes on this item. General Manager Washington explained
that the University of Colorado and Children’s Hospital are
working on a comprehensive transportation plan for the entire
campus. He stated that because of this he feels the language
of the amendment is appropriate.
Director Folska said that initially she found the new alignment
very troubling but as she thought about it and learned about it

she feels the Montview station really wants to move. She had
a vision while listening to Bill Mosher that we have an anchor
with Denver Union Station and at the other end of Colfax we
will have the Montview Parkway into the Future of Science.
Director Folska noted that she does agree with Directors
Deadwyler and Rivera-Malpiede in that how we circulate
people around the medical campuses is very important. She
also noted Rick Clarke’s comments that the original alignment
would have the train running through the middle of campus
and impede mobility. Director Folska thinks that having the
station moved to the north area will be easier, cheaper, and
keep us on budget and schedule. She will support the original
motion.
Director Lubow stated that she is concerned with the
vagueness of the amendment language; there is no
commitment or date for when the transportation plan needs to
be done and in place. She feels that CU is asking something
major from us so she would like to see something where they
commit to having shuttles by the time the line is built.
Director James stated that he agrees with most of what has
been said this evening. He said that he leans toward
supporting this in the interest of benefitting the entire
community. Director James asked if he was correct that the
length of the new alignment would be shorter. He said if this
was correct then both the capital and operating costs could
benefit. Rick Clarke stated that the line would be slightly
shorter but the important thing is the increase in speed that
would help funning time. Rick Clarke stressed that the cost of
$60 million would only occur if we kept the alignment on
Montview; if we do the realignment the monies would come
entirely out of the I-225 project budget. Director James said
that he would be voting against the amendment. He believes
there is a window of time for CU and our partners to show us
a plan and staff will work with them to do that.
Director Walker stated that this type of issue comes up all the
time in the other industry he works in. The alignment will be
set for years and once they get out into the field a problem
will present itself. Director Walker asked if we would need a
Park-n-Ride at the Fitzsimmons station. Marla Lien said that at
least at one location, which is surrounded by City Park land, it
will be challenging. Director Walker commented that buying
public property for private use can be problematic. He asked if

it was the same as if we were to buy public property for
another public use. Marla Lien stated that it is still
challenging. Rick Clarke said that a Park-n-Ride is not in our
plans but CU’s letter talked about providing parking. Director
Walker noted the operational and speed benefits of the line not
cutting through the middle of campus. He expressed that he
will be supporting the original motion. He stated that although
he respects the intent behind the amendment he will not be
supporting it. He is going to trust the staff recommendation
and our partners. He believes they will take the steps
necessary to do what is best for the campus.
Director Tobiassen agrees with the other Directors and their
comments. He said that the shuttle has always been in the
plans to some degree for the campus. Director Tobiassen
noted the struggles we are seeing right now at the VA
Hospital with some of the planning they did not do. He stated
that it is a lot easier to change lines on paper than in concrete
so we are fortunate that we can look at this now and take full
advantage of the properties to the north. Director Tobiassen
believes that the Stapleton development will add a great deal
of residential housing that will probably provide ridership
greater than what we are losing west of Peoria. Director
Tobiassen shared that he has a report from 2008-2009 that
highlights grants for equipment that may not have come to the
hospital at that time if the light rail was in place. He thinks it
is going to benefit all of the citizens of the State of Colorado
to have this super desirable facility at the Anschutz Campus.
Director Tobiassen stated that he believes the
circulator/shuttle will solve itself over time but tying our hands
right now does not make a lot of sense so he will not be
supporting the amendment.
Director Solano asked if the new alignment would be far
enough as the advancement in biomedical research continues.
He asked if there was a standard used in the medical field for
EMI levels. Rick Clarke stated that the science surrounding
EMIs is evolving and equipment is becoming more sensitive.
He explained that staff feels the distance is okay and CU
support the change.
Director Bagley stated that one of the things the Board can do
is ask CU to provide a better understanding of their plan. He
explained that we have two weeks for CU and staff to put

something together to demonstrate to the Board that they hear
what is being said.
Chair Anderson stated that in regards to her amendment she
intended for it to be vague. She thinks that for a 15 member
Board of Directors to sit in chambers for a few hours and craft
a transportation plan for a campus like CU is ludicrous. She
explained that she was trying to incorporate the issue she
heard from other Directors regarding the transit dependent
people and their access to the campus while also listening to
the Directors that feel we should not be telling others what to
do. Chair Anderson believes this amendment will direct CU to
do exactly what Director Bagley has asked for but it is also
broad enough for people to be innovative.

Vote on Motion to Amend the Primary Motion:
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 5]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Chair of the Board
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano
NAYS: Folska, Lasater, Rivera-Malpiede, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.
Vote on Primary Motion as Amended:
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 4]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Folska, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Bruce Daly, Barbara Deadwyler, Larry Hoy, Gary Lasater
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion as amended PASSED.

• North Metro Segment 2, Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project Property Acquisition
RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying
properties as necessary for construction of the North Metro Segment 2

(Stock Show to 72nd Avenue), Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project and authorize
staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain
law and to provide the General Manager or designee with authority to enter
into all contracts necessary to consummate real property transactions.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the
motion to move this item to the
full Board at the June 25, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska noted that in the resolution there was some
language related to significantly inconveniencing someone.
She asked Marla Lien for the legal definition of significantly
inconveniencing. Marla Lien stated that there is not a legal
definition. Susan Altes said that she believes the language in
the resolution that Director Folska is referring to reads as
follows: “Whereas, the Board recognizes that each and every
property owner impacted by the North Metro Segment 2,
Phase 1 Commuter Rail Project, although financially
compensated according to the law, makes a significant
personal sacrifice for the public good, a sacrifice not made by
others who benefit from the Project.” Marla Lien explained
that was an acknowledgement, not a legal definition. Director
Folska asked if this statement entitled them to receive any
additional funding from other sources or relocation support.
Both Marla Lien and Susan Altes stated that it does not.
Director Bagley stated that he was encouraged when he
reviewed the list of properties to be acquired. He noticed that
there is only one property that he could see that was probably
a total taken out of about seven acres. He stated that staff
had done a good job and encouraged them to continue the
great work.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED to the Unanimous
Consent Agenda.

D. Other Matters
Director Daly stated that the CAC representative was questioning the West Line not
going downtown at the Civic Center and if RTD could send some of the West Line
cars into downtown. Director Daly asked for Austin to address these concerns and
also about the closing of the Sport Authority station mentioned by Mr. Wilson.
General Manager Washington stated that staff will address those items at the
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 2, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:50 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee Meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

