1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, November 15, 2016
Board Conference Room
3:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Chaired by Tina Francone
Call to Order
Committee Chair Francone called the meeting to order at 3:30 p.m.
Committee Members in attendance: Committee Chair Francone, Vice Chair Bagley,
Directors Menten, Tobiassen and Walker. Director Anderson participated via
phone.
Others Present:

Barbara McManus, Tai-Shrae Parish

Evaluate GM Self-Assessment
Committee Chair Francone indicated that she submitted her recommendations to
Barbara McManus and asked if the other Directors had theirs prepared.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, stated she had received
recommendations from Directors Francone, Bagley and Tobiassen.
Director Anderson said she was prepared to discuss her recommendations during
the meeting.

Directors Menten and Walker noted that they had their prepared recommendations
with them.
Committee Chair Francone explained that the goal was to evaluate the General
Manager’s performance and discuss a discretionary payment as well. She asked
Barbara McManus to give the committee an overview of the recommendations.
Barbara McManus remarked that the 48 voting points were broken down to the
following:
 Exceeds: 23.5
 Achieved: 20.5
 Needs Improvement: 4
Barbara McManus asked if she should include Director Archuleta’s comments into
the final results. Committee Chair Francone remarked that he did not submit them
prior to the meeting, and since he is not here his comments will be excluded.
Committee Chair Francone asked if anyone wanted to share their comments for
Core Goal 1.
Director Bagley commented that to him, it was an achieved goal, but he had
significant issues with the University of Colorado A line, the B line and the smart
card testing.
Chair Tobiassen stated that his recommendation was exceeds. He noted that there
was successful implementation of real time bus tracking, the new fare structure
was incorporated, and noted the consistent on time performance. He added that
the General Manager and staff are quick to respond to unexpected events and do
everything possible to move as many people as possible. Also, the Flatiron Flyer
(FF) was delivered in response to increased service demands.
Director Menten explained that the smart card is still and issue and she is also
disappointed in the time it will take to retrofit the light rail cars for ADA
compliance.
Director Walker shared the same sentiments as Chair Tobiassen and added that the
light rail held a million people for the super bowl parade and it was not built for
that. He noted that the 16th Street Mall Meet in the Streets summer activities were
successful, and coordinating bus routes with new service was also challenging.
Committee Chair Francone remarked that her recommendation was achieved, but
the smart card implementation resulted in a notice to cure to the contractor. She
commented that it took forever to get to that spot and it should have been done
sooner. She added that the super bowl parade should have had better preparation
as it was expected and staff could have coordinated that better.

Committee Chair Francone asked if anyone would like to share their comments for
Core Goal 2.
Director Anderson commented that after attending several American Public
Transportation Association (APTA) conferences and seeing how RTD is always
treating with respect, she feels that is a clear indication that RTD has exceeded in
strong ethical leadership. She added that some of the recent awards RTD has
received are indicative of those achievements as well.
Director Bagley stated that his recommendation was exceeds. He stated that the
he agrees with the General Manager’s self-evaluation, and noted that this category
is more about how the agency is performing, not just the General Manager.
Chair Tobiassen remarked that his recommendation was exceeds. He explained
that one thing he looks for is how honestly is the agency communicating with its
stakeholders. He added that staff has done a good job explaining issues, and noted
that the City of Aurora has nothing but the highest praise for RTD. He commented
that the leadership and professional development programs within RTD are paying
off, and employee morale is high. He stated that in regards to the hiring
challenges, it has been approached honestly and the Board and stakeholders were
informed.
Director Walker noted that he chose exceeds for this category because the General
Manager was able to get the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) waiver for the
University of Colorado A line, which was a huge feat.
Director Francone indicated that she chose achieved, primarily because the General
Manager has not had a good opportunity to show the Board what he can do. She
remarked that he has done a good job so far, but she has not seen much of his
individual leadership style. She said that she would like to see more, as the short
time that he has been the General Manager has not allowed him to showcase his
talents.
Committee Chair Francone asked for comments for Core Goal 3.
Director Anderson commented that she chose exceeds and noted that there were
some challenges for the General Manager to meet this year. She noted that he has
done an excellent job working with various communities and even though she is not
sold on doing special accounts to appease elected officials, she gives the General
Manager credit for trying to quell growing criticism. She added that in addition to
the great fuel lock price, she is pleased that service has not been cut.
Director Bagley remarked that the General Manager and Heather Copp have done a
fantastic job, but he has extremely high expectations and he is somewhere
between achieved and exceeds for this goal. He added that the $92 million grant

that RTD received this year was started four years ago, but the General Manager
reaped the benefits of it this year.
Tobiassen stated that he chose exceeds for this goal and he concurs that Heather
Copp is a shining star in this organization. He noted that Heather has brought new
vision to the long term outcome and responsibilities of the Pension Trust Board and
both she and the General Manager are brutally honest about RTD’s current financial
position.
Committee Chair Francone remarked that she chose achieved for this goal. She
stated that she has been impressed with the agency’s ability to examine how we
finance items, all the way to the fuel lock. She added that there has been a shift in
philosophy where RTD is looking to fill up accounts and paying for items as we go,
in order to reducing the borrowing of funds.
Director Walker commented that he chose exceeds. He noted that there were no
service cuts, RTD built and opened new lines, and continues to build out the
district.
Committee Chair Francone moved to Core Goal 4 and asked for any comments.
Director Anderson stated that her assessment was exceeds. She remarked that
while many of these programs were started in the past, the General Manager has
increased their efficiency. She commented that the Colorado Black Chamber of
Commerce gave RTD the Corporation of the Year award and the Rocky Mountain
Indian Chamber gave RTD the First Nations Development Institute award. She
stated that RTD continues to be viewed as a model for workforce development.
Director Bagley remarked that he chose exceeds, and he agrees with the General
Manager’s self-assessment. He said the continuation of the Workforce Initiative
Now (WIN) program, and how it has been adopted by other entities and utilized by
the Federal Transit Administration is significant.
Director Menten stated she chose achieved and she would like to see the
graduation rates.
Chair Tobiassen said that he chose exceeds. He explained that the General
Manager is at the top of the organization and we have an exceptional EEO Manager
as well. They are both extremely knowledgeable, outward reaching and community
focused. He added that RTD has a strong ADA Manager on board now, and
overall, he is impressed with staff. He noted that RTD sponsored the ADA
symposium this summer and he has heard nothing but good things about that
conference.

Director Walker stated his recommendation was exceeds. He based that on the
implementation of the EEO Software, the new ADA Manager, the EEO Officer and
the reconfiguration of the light rail cars for ADA.
Committee Chair Francone remarked that she struggled with this category. She
stated that the Board rarely receives updates from this department and doesn’t
know what they are doing. She added that the Board never sees Ed Neuberg, and
the outreach efforts are primarily focused on central Denver. She commented that
she had asked the department for outreach in District N and she was not notified
about the function until the day after the event. She stated that the Board receives
the complaints, but they are not notified of the resolution. She said these
measures seem nebulous and vague.
Director Walker added that he has been working with the ADA Office on
recognizing service animals and training staff appropriately, and the training should
occur in January.
Committee Chair Francone moved to Core Goal 5 and asked for any comments.
Director Anderson stated that she agrees with the General Manager’s selfassessment, but she has issues with the postponement of the G Line and how little
the Board knows about what is going on. She remarked that the public is holding
the Board responsible and currently, FasTracks and P3 does not seem to be very
successful.
Director Bagley remarked that he was between exceeds and achieved expectations.
He said there are two issues that are problematic. First, the failure of the mobility
choice action item, and second was getting the 2017 APE passed. He stated that
the General Manager should work with the Board, either one on one, or in small
groups to reiterate the importance of certain items. He explained that if the APE
vote had failed, it would have put RTD in a precarious position.
Director Menten added that there has not been enough communication from the
General Manger to the public or the Board. She said that she was still waiting to
get the results of the forensic evaluation on the University of Colorado A line, and
the Board did not receive any notice about the press conference until the day of.
She stated that the press conference wasn’t taped or put on YouTube and any
meeting like that should be taped.
Director Bagley said the issue of filming Board and Committee meetings is critical
for transparency and accountability. He stated that this organization should
implement video recordings, no matter what the cost is.
Director Menten noted that the City of Littleton does not have written minutes
anymore as all of their meetings are recorded.

Chair Tobiassen reminded the committee that the Board voted against video
recordings and we cannot hold the General Manager accountable for that. He
remarked that it is unfortunate that staff has so many challenges at the moment,
but the General Manager has done a good job.
Director Walker said the weekly Monday Morning Q’s, (MMQ’s) give a general
overview of what is happening within the agency, and the weekly General
Manager’s Report has a lot of information. He noted that the 16th Street Mall
discussions have been contentious, but the General Manager has done a good job
of managing those conversations.
Committee Chair Francone commented that in this area, the General Manager needs
improvement; primarily for the University of A line communications and failure to
get DTP to quickly move into action. She stated that with respect to community
outreach, she has never seen a staff member at any of the Jefferson County
meetings or events. She noted that Director Folska had been asking for a year for
the results of the On-Board surveys and staff could have explained the process
better to the Board but they did not. She added that there are remaining issues and
questions that have not been addressed.

Evaluate GM Fall Performance Survey
Committee Chair Francone asked if there were any comments for Task Goal 1.
Director Anderson said the committee needs to get together to set the priorities for
next year as she is unhappy about certain things, but now is not the time to bring
them up.
Director Bagley commented that the naming rights, and the $92 million grant were
both in play well before the General Manager took over.
Chair Tobiassen stated that this is one of the most challenging items RTD faces.
With insufficient funds to complete all of the corridors, if the Board is split, it will
not help the agency remain sustainable.
Director Walker added that participation in the reduced fare program has grown.
He stated that RTD needs to provide assistance to those that provide assistance.
Committee Chair Francone noted that she sees improvement in non-profit
distribution channels, making transportation available to more people.
Committee Chair Francone asked if there were any comments for Task Goal 2.
Director Anderson indicated it was great that RTD received the waiver extension
from the FRA, but she needs further assurances that the University of Colorado A
line will be fixed.

Director Bagley admitted the agency should have been more proactive with
communications regarding the University of Colorado A line.
Director Menten said there are too many questions out there right now. Signage is
still an issue, and we are in a tough spot with the University of Colorado A line and
the Arvada A line shuttle going away. She added that she still receives complaints
about wayfinding through the airport.
Director Anderson remarked that the Arvada A line Shuttle went away because that
entity’s Board of Directors made the decision, not the RTD Board.
Chair Tobiassen commented that opening five corridors in one year is extremely
difficult. We said three of the five are open and two are pending, and hopefully,
they will open soon. He added that North Metro and the Southeast extension are
making progress.
Director Walker remarked that he has worked in construction for 20 years and it is
amazing that anything is built on time, or on schedule.
Committee Chair Francone asked if there were any comments for Task Goal 3.
Director Anderson stated that she would have liked to have seen this finished a
year ago, but she understands there are issues with cyber technology and we do
not want to put our constituent’s information at risk.
Director Bagley said the whole issue with smart cards has been going on for over
six years and it is a major flaw that we used Xerox.
Chair Tobiassen commented that the General Manager has embraced cyber security
and staff brought in Homeland Security who performed an audit of the light rail
system for free. He added that the addition of real time tracking is huge, and an
update to the electronic records system is upcoming. He stated that the
organization is doing work behind the scenes that the Board is unaware of.
Committee Chair Francone stated that while the smart card portal wasn’t
implemented, there have been huge strides by the agency to protect customer
information.
Barbara McManus remarked that the 48 voting points were broken down to the
following:
 Exceeds: 23.5
 Achieved: 20.5
 Needs Improvement: 4

Director Bagley said he has problems with the University of Colorado A line, the
smart cards, and the mobility choice failure. He noted that he cannot off a
discretionary bonus payment above $10,000 for 2016.
Director Anderson remarked that the automatic salary increase is enough without
the discretionary bonus.
Director Menten stated that she would not offer a discretionary bonus.
Chair Tobiassen asked what was the range for the discretionary bonus.
Committee Chair Francone stated it is up to 10% of the $275,000 base salary.
Chair Tobiassen commented that he would propose a 4-5% bonus.
Director Walker said this is a difficult decision for him, but he would give 5%.
Committee Chair Francone said she is in favor of no discretionary payment. She
stated that the discretionary is designed to reward exceptional behavior and while
he has done a great job, the General Manager has not been exceptional, nor has he
exceeded her expectations.
Director Anderson indicated that her community is looking at this very closely, and
she will be held responsible if the G line does not open in time. She added that
even though the Board has no control over the delay, they will all be held
accountable for it.
Chair Tobiassen said he is concerned about making a business decision versus
making a political decision. He commented that while the Board is a political entity,
RTD is a business entity and the two should be separate.
Director Francone said the two cannot be separated. The committee is discussing
performance criteria so that the Board can determine if a performance payout is
warranted.
Director Francone remarked that if the entire package is examined, the General
Manager’s base salary is $275,000 with an automatic $10,000 increase next year.
She stated that the automatic increase was in recognition of his excellence, which
does not exclude the possibility of a discretionary bonus for exceptional
achievement. She said if he would have hit all of his marks for this year, of course
the Board would pay him more. She stated that while there were things outside of
his control, he is still responsible for them based on this evaluation.
Director Anderson stated that she does not want to be the only Board member held
accountable by their community. She added that the General Manager has given
his best shot, but he is in this along with the Board, and all of us must show the

communities that we expected more from this year, but unfortunately we came up
short. She reiterated that the eyes are upon us and the Board needs to be
cautious.
Director Walker commented that the measure of a CEO should not be by what they
do, but by what they do not do. He noted that delaying the smart card was the
right decision and the General Manager and his staff have done what they can with
what they have to work with.
Director Anderson reiterated that the University of Colorado A line could go away
until all of the problems are fixed, and that is a very real possibility. She said the
timing for this bonus is wrong, and the Board needs to get through this tough time
first.

Questions and Next Steps
Committee Chair Francone said the next step would be to discuss the discretionary
bonus recommendations with the full Board at the November 29th committee
meeting.

Next Meeting Date: November 29, 2016 - 3:00 - 5:00 p.m.
Adjourn
Committee Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 5:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

