2023-02-15
Operations and Safety Committee pt 2
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to call the February Operations and Customer and Safety Committee back to
order again. The time is 7:50. We are at item E in our agenda, which are discussion items, and we have
two discussion items on the agenda this evening.
The first item is an RTD Police Department update. I'm going to ask Chief Fitzgerald to speak to us briefly
some more. I think he has some stuff to give us. OK, Chief, I see the nice picture. There's no sound.
JOEL FITZGERALD: All right. You are able to see the picture, though, correct?
KATE WILLIAMS: Now I can hear you and [INAUDIBLE].
JOEL FITZGERALD: I will be brief. I promise you.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Much of this has been spoken about already, so I won't belabor the point. This is an
update insofar as what we've seen in the first seven months or so in my time at the Department. What
we've spoken about earlier is the APTA peer review. Our APTA peer review detailed the need for change
within not only the Police Department, but in the way we handle public safety matters in the RTD
environment.
So what I intend to speak about is some of the active peer review recommendations, what the
implementations look like, some of our evidence-based policing advancements, how our strategic
priorities align with what you, the Board, have set forth for us as an organization, and some of the data
outputs or statistics, if you will. So based upon the results from our subject matter experts that conducted
our APTA peer review study, we were told that we needed to really look at how we actually mobilized our
police officers and our security complement.
We were urged to move towards a more sworn component of police officers in lieu of using private
security and private security contracts to drive the amount of public safety that we add to our system. We
were advised to implement crime prevention through environmental design. Some of that has been
mentioned, and it comes in the form of some structural changes that we make to our infrastructure at
Denver Union Station in the form of paid fare areas.
We're looking and using more evidence-based methodologies to collect data on our chronic offenders that
I spoke of to work towards removing some of those folks from the system. We've used our data and
feedback that we've gotten to create smart goals for the organization. We embrace community-oriented
policing and that approach to providing a safe and secure environment. And we're working with the city
and county of Denver in more of a robust manner to promote some of the changes that I've already
spoken about.
So what's the implementation look like? The process of creating a welcoming transit environment, again,
was reinforced by APTA. They said, the subject matter experts, that we needed to look at a paid fare
area. We needed to understand what type of access and what kind of measures needed to be made,

especially in our restrooms that people were using narcotics and sleeping and doing other things that
weren't consistent with using a restroom.
We needed to add security measures in partnership with the people downtown that provide mental health
and crisis response, the folks that help add to steering people with unhoused and housing problems
towards housing and to steer folks towards those entities that could best serve them when they have
problems like drug abuse. The model that we use to facilitate the changes, as I spoke about, was one of
the preeminent recommendations they made. And that was moving in a really phased approach towards
a full service policing model, which you have broken down on the righthand side of the screen-- is how
year to year, we anticipate hiring and moving towards that public safety model with sworn police officers.
We, in essence, will be cannibalizing our contract with public-- I shouldn't say public safety. I should say
cannibalizing our contract with our security partners from traditionally unutilised portions of that contract.
And what do I mean by that? We never have 100% of our security complement working. That's a problem
that spans more than just the security industry. It spans every industry.
So what we're attempting to do is hire police officers to make sure that we have enough public safety
presence on all the implements of transportation that we have in our system. It creates buy-in, and it
gives us leverage to recruit for diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. And it also enhances customer
service because as we talked about earlier, you have people that are making discretionary decisions in
the best interest of the organization.
We leverage data to inform our decision making, and we provided more emphasis on emergency
management. In the last few months, we hired a specialist in emergency management, which is part of
my responsibility to create an emergency operations plan, a COOP plan, which is Continuity Of
Operations, and to meet our Public Utilities Commission requirements. That comes in the form of making- I should say engaging in tabletop exercises for muscle memory. What this agency will do when faced-and I say when faced, not if-- but when faced with a situation that requires comprehensive emergency
management response.
What are we doing in evidence-based policing? Well, part of that is utilizing 21st century policing. You
heard me talk about earlier implicit bias training, de-escalation, and the other forms of trainings that we
give to not only our police officers, but our security component. We have to do a better job of professional
development of our own staff because as we grow, we want people to make the best discretionary
decisions possible. And with that, we have to train them in such.
We've developed the partnerships downtown and in other areas to expand the way we do business and
to expand the manner in which we've dealt with places like Denver and Union Station, as we've talked
about, to expand into other areas in the five different sections of the environment that we serve. Our
community engagement has been robust. We have worked with social service agencies and will continue
to do so.
I don't recall who asked, but earlier we were asked if that's going to continue and we're going to do it
throughout the entire Metro area. We are. I use this slide to just represent some of the feedback that
we've gotten. Now, I can give you complaints. I can give you kudos.
This is a kudo. This is someone who has seen some of the changes we've made in the areas of
Wadsworth and Sheridan stations. And we've continuously gotten positive feedback about the way we've

now started to deploy our resources and done so in an evidence-based manner. We've engaged people
better. We've used feedback from the Transit Watch app, our crime data.
We do actually listen and invest in internal and external input from our employees, from our citizens, and
we care about it. So that's part of our decision-making process that I can't say is something that, again,
not only are we proud of, but it's something that has gone into a lot of the decision making that you've
seen this evening from a community viewpoint. Outside of just the peer review recommendations, we've
added cameras in certain areas you're all familiar with.
CPTED, our Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design, entails using other means to deter criminal
activity. I've had conversations with one or two of you about better leveraging technology. So those are
things that are not only being used, but those are things we are going to expand upon because we
understand that you're-- our feet on the ground are one thing, but our eyes in the sky are another. So in
that same regard, we've used our internal resources in our Video Investigations Unit to create what we're
calling a real-time crime center that's using our video investigators to take a look at hotspots and to keep
an eye on, in addition to our dispatchers, areas where we've seen chronic offenses and pattern crimes.
Again, outside of those recommendations that APTA has made, in the five sectors, we're using
commanders to reach out to each of you, which you'll see is in each one of your areas. A commander will
be responsible for a particular section. And they will be, as I say, responsible for their little slice of God's
green Earth in coming up with problem solving plans respective of the areas that they're servicing.
This, in essence, rebrands us as a regional partner to other law enforcement agencies in the 40 cities and
eight counties. It highlights how we have an interest in doing more than just giving lip service to
community-oriented policing. We're actually putting the time in and putting the effort in across the Metro
region.
So we'll be inviting more people into the conversation. We will be having community events. And perhaps
some of the events that we host or that you host, we can take part in and actually educate some of our
community members about the things we're doing.
We want to become a law enforcement employer of choice. And judging by the number of applications
that we have for our transition, we're doing a pretty good job of announcing ourselves as a viable
alternative to becoming a police officer in other jurisdictions. RTD is an employer of choice.
We've created a static post in Union Station Civic Center. And we've got work to do. I admit that. But
we've seen a difference.
One of the things we've used in remote areas-- and some of your sections may have seen this, or you
may have gotten feedback on it-- is using what you see to your right. That's a theft from a motor vehicle
report card. We have officers that actually walk through physically Park and Rides and adjacent garages
to our stations and check vehicles to make sure that you're not becoming an easy target for theft or any
other crimes.
It lets our customers know that we're actually there, that we're doing physical inspections. And we're
looking to really improve upon that by having the type of police force that can take these types of
proactive actions to educate our customers, to be proactive, and so that you have an expectation that
we're actually using real metrics to decide on what we're doing and how we do it. I spoke about our
contractual savings because of the unfilled positions.

But the five sectors that you see broken down before you don't really break it down pursuant to each one
of your areas. But you could pencil yourselves in, so to speak, and see that each one of those areas, if
you understand that it'll correspond with the name of a commander who you'll be able to go to as your
direct-- I mean, obviously you can still come to me or go to anyone else in the organization you like. But I
expect these commanders to take what's going on in these particular areas personally and to give you the
type of personal services necessary to change the way we're seen throughout the community and for all
of our customers.
So our body worn camera program is legislated and should be in place in June. We're working diligently
to get these contracts executed, and there'll be opportunities as we grow as an organization for the
professionals within our organization to become more professional to promote the kind of efficiency that
we need. We're going to have other needs. That means upgrading CAD and RMS software.
CAD is Computer Aided Dispatch. RMS is Records Management. A question was asked, well, how do
you keep tabs on the chronic offenders, and who's been warned, and who's been told they can't be in
certain areas? Well, that is how-- through a Records Management System, and that's what every police
department uses. So in an-- I should say in an effort to better communicate with our law enforcement
partners, we need to modernize these systems so we speak to each other.
And most, if not all, of the other systems out there can be leveraged so that we can speak to Denver and
other Metro areas about who the chronic offenders are and start identifying those folks and making sure
that the right people are being prohibited from using our services or being arrested if need be. So again,
we want a one-stop shop. We want you to know that training, policy, and other advancements are
absolutely happening. And those trainings are an area that-- areas that are not only discretionary but train
our folks in how to de-escalate situations.
Some of the outputs that we've seen-- since 2020, a 68% decrease overall when compared to 2022. That
is more than substantial. That is noteworthy. That is commendable for the men and women that have
been here.
I can't take credit for that. I haven't been here since 2020, but I can tell you that we're moving in the right
direction. And I spoke earlier about momentum, and what this slide tells you is momentum is moving in
the right direction. We're making good decisions based upon actual metrics and actual feedback.
And with those decisions, to keep moving in that direction, I think part of the reason why you heard the
passion in my voice earlier is because in moving and generating the type of momentum that we're seeing,
in order to keep moving in that same direction, we need your support. Just in Denver Union Station alone
is a microcosm of what we see across the district. I won't say that every place is the same, but Denver
and Union Station is pretty much the easiest location for us to provide perspective to.
So look at the numbers. Incidents in Denver Union Station since I've been hired have gone drastically,
drastically down. Now, this is not for a lack of trying, but what it also says is that we need, in order to
make this effectual across the entire system, a comprehensive growth strategy. And that's what we're
trying to do. We want to grow this organization consistent with the recommendations that we got from
APTA peer review and keep our momentum moving in the direction that we can all be proud of and that
we can all say and point to this system as improving every day and not seeing regressive patterns.
Right now we're not seeing that, and momentum is moving positively. Just our key projects and initiatives- I've already talked about most. I've ad nauseum tonight shared some of these things with you. But know

this-- I think the most important part of what you're seeing in this particular slide is knowing that for once,
we have real goals and action items well beyond what you've even posed for the organization.
We've got a litany of goals and action items that are smart goals, that have actual people responsible for
them within the Police Department to execute and to ensure that the things that we're speaking about
come to fruition across the district. So at your leisure, you can always ask, and I can share with you all of
the goals that we've created. But understand that they were constructed with everyone in mind and the
best interest of the organization, including that of customer feedback that we received in addition to what
we've heard from you, our representatives throughout the district.
I tried to keep it short. I tried to keep it upbeat, and I appreciate your attention. If you have any questions,
I certainly will answer them.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that was great. We thank you. I'm trying to see if I can get back to my main screen
here.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I will help you with that.
KATE WILLIAMS: There we go. And then as earlier in the evening, if you want to speak-- there you go,
Director Rosenthal. I see your hand, and I actually saw his hand. So you have the floor.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Chief Fitzgerald. So my question
relates to sort of creating this new level of regional commanders. And I guess my concern is, are we
creating a whole bunch more bureaucracy in the system? I would just want to make sure that those
commanders are out in the field with the various officers, and they're on the concourses and walking the
beat, so to speak, in the community.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Incidentally, one of the, if you would-- incidentally, one of the commanders-actually, two just stopped some folks in the area of Colfax, right out in front of Civic Center, and tussled
with an individual out there. Our commanders are on the ground. They're meant to lead by not only
example, but to go to the different areas within our transit environment and to, again, create the type of
problem solving decisions that aren't just germane to one area within the system.
Every area that you guys represent have their own individual issues. And my expectation is that it's not
bureaucratic. I said this earlier, and I'll reinforce it. They're responsible for their slice of God's green Earth
that we give them.
And I want to know that when you reach out to one of our commanders, that they're coming up with the
strategy and have the resources, i.e. the new and expanding staff, to go out into each area and to give
everyone the kind of attention that we've given the Denver Union Station. I hope that makes sense.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes. Thank you, sir. And then my other question is, so-- and just for all of our
edification, but also the folks who are listening tonight. In terms of the training that they do receive as a
uniformed officer of RTD, they go through POST certification Is that correct?
And then also, in terms of what's best practices for law enforcement today nationwide is much more
socialization and how do we de-escalate? Number one, de-escalate situations that people do encounter
so we don't-- I mean, unfortunately, maybe have a tussle once in a while. But I mean, I believe how do we
de-escalate to make sure that we do not have conflicts, but at the same time show presence, address

matters as they really necessarily need to be addressed. But as I said, make sure that we use best
practices on engaging anyone who may be in crisis or causing troubles. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're absolutely correct. We do. We are POST certified. We are state certified, just
like any other police officers. But a police chief has a number of responsibilities, one of which is to
understand what's going on in society and to train people accordingly.
I spoke of earlier that in 2015, I was one of six police chiefs in the country that committed to the National
Initiative. What that meant was I committed to training more than 1,000 police officers in de-escalation,
implicit bias, and other trainings that have become feng shui for everyone else in this industry. So I
stepped out on a limb very early on because of my belief that we should be engaging people differently.
We should de-escalate situations. We're not perfect. It's not always going to be a situation you can deescalate. Heck, I've had officers I've had to discipline for not de-escalating situations-- thankfully, not
here. But what I will say to you is that, again, that is part of the training we give police officers and part of
the expectation that I have in the way we behave.
I said this earlier as well, and I'll repeat it. And I promise you, I won't repeat many other things. It's you
have to inspect what you expect. We do that. And we also train what we expect, so I hope that gives you
some clarity about where we're going.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, both. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a question for Dr. Chief Fitzgerald. I don't know
how else to phrase this, but you used the word "tussle," so I'll follow your lead. If one of your officers has
a tussle with a member of the public and the member of the public has a complaint, is there an
independent process by which that complaint is reviewed? Or is there any kind of investigation that
follows?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Oh, yes. Absolutely. If a member of the public makes a complaint against police, we
investigate each and every complaint that we have. I think Melanie is still on-- Ms. Snyder-- who can
stand up to the fact that I've actually toughened the disciplinary standards within the police department.
So I'm not lip service.
I tell people, I'm Officer "I Mean." I mean what I say, and I say what I mean. And what I mean here is that
we expect a lot of the professionals that we're hiring, and we expect professional behavior. And when
there's not, there are professional consequences. You can rest assured that our policy is tight and that we
do have a means for people to make complaints. All complaints must be taken, also.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry, I don't know if I missed it. But do we have also-- is there any independent
review process? Do we use an outside investigative agency or anything like that? And if not, is that
something that hypothetically you might support in professionalizing our TDPD?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, I will tell you that I try not to deal in hypotheticals. But-JOYANN RUSCHA: Or literal. That's fine. At least it's working.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I would hope that we would trust in subject matter experts and the people that
you've hired to do this job. I don't know that I've had any complaints that haven't been addressed. And I

don't think it's a bad thing to involve people in certain processes. But I think that that evolves out of
problems within your process, and I haven't seen that here.
I took over seven months ago. I haven't had many, if any, complaints about not being judicious about the
way we handle things. But I will say this. I have farmed out one complaint that we've had already to
another police agency to investigate. So if there's ever any question about our ability to take ourselves out
of some kind of situation and let other people take a look at things, I think I've already demonstrated that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Ruscha, I'm going to suggest that if you have an idea about that, that you
probably want to take it to our finance, to our budget first to see if there's funding to do that. And then you
might want to have an independent conversation with the Chief. OK.
JOEL FITZGERALD: [INAUDIBLE] Director Tisdale-KATE WILLIAMS: Are you good for now, Director Ruscha? Are you done?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale, I think you're up next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I have a two-part question for the Chief. I know
that we have spent a fair amount of time, energy, and resources in creating a response team that will
include a member who is skilled in dealing with social services problems. And I know that one of the
things that we have done, particularly, as I am aware, at Union Station, is dealing with people who are
unhoused and offering to transport them to shelters. And I was wondering, can you give us, please, any
sense of the percentage of those people contacted who accept our offers of transport to shelters?
JOEL FITZGERALD: I am rarely stumped, but in this case, I would have to get back to you and research
that. I do know that people do take advantage of that offering, but I wouldn't be able to give you a number.
And I don't know that-- I think we could pull the numbers together of that by looking at reports. But it's not
something that I've been asked, so I will get back to you and be able to provide that for you.
DOUG TISDALE: It's not a pop quiz. It's just a question I would like when you have an opportunity to
provide the full Board with the answer to that. And at the same time, the second part of the question
relates to that. If you could provide, if it has been collected as part of any such interactions, any stated
reasons for declining or refusing to accept that transport to shelters. That would be the two parts to that
question that I would ask you provide at some convenient time in the future. Thank you, Chief.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. OK, anybody else have questions or comments on this
discussion item? Director Broom, you have your hand up there?
BOB BROOM: No, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So we are going to thank the Chief for that excellent presentation and for his work
staying with this committee this evening. And the second item we have under discussion items are the
May 2023 service change proposals. Mr. Ford, you still with us?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I am, Madam Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: It's on you.
MICHAEL FORD: All right. Thank you. Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer, and I would like to provide
you an update on the May 2023 service change proposal. As you know, staff brings to you three service
change proposals over the course of a year's time for discussion and subsequent recommendations,
which is in alignment with the Collective Bargaining Agreement-- the CBA-- with ATU Local 1001 for
frontline operator selection of work.
This process provides an opportunity for bus and rail operators to select, based on seniority, new work
assignments and for the service development staff to make necessary adjustments to RTD's transit
network. Ridership levels are currently 185,000 weekday average boardings, which is up over 2021 by
10%. Commensurate with RTD's System Optimization Plan, which facilitates an interest in increasing
service, this exercise is done in conjunction with RTD's resources, which then dictates the level of service
increases, modifications, and/or adjustments needing to be executed for the upcoming service change.
By way of discussion, the guidelines contained in the strategic plan most directly relate to addressing
customer excellence, thus improving on-time performance, maintaining contractual compliance, and
adjusting service levels to match service and ridership demand. Staff is guided by the Board-adopted
service change principles. And in your Board packet, you will see a breakdown summary of proposed
service changes, service improvements, service reductions, and seasonal adjustments to account for
travel patterns.
Also in your Board packet is a complete breakdown of the proposed service changes and dates for public
meeting and hearings. Virtual public hearings are scheduled for noon on February 20, 2023, noon, and at
5:30 on February 21. And at this time, I'm happy to take questions. And I would invite Jessie Carter, RTD
Senior Manager of Service Development, to join me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Carter, good evening. You have anything you want to add at this time?
JESSIE CARTER: No, just a slight clarification. As far as the public hearings that we're going to have,
they are going to be February 21 at noon and at 5:30, and then February 22 at noon. So if you all are able
to participate in those, we'd be happy to have you to also chime in your thoughts on the service change
proposals.
KATE WILLIAMS: Those are virtual meetings. Is that correct, Mr. Carter?
JESSIE CARTER: That is correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And you can find information on how to attend those on the RTD website.
JESSIE CARTER: As usual.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I'm going to ask-JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Yes, absolutely, sir. Thank you for staying with us. Is there anybody here that has
comments or questions on those? And if you put your hand up, you'll need to also put it up physically. OK,
I see nobody.

There's some interesting things here. We thank you for your work always on that, Jessie. We appreciate
the effort that you make to try and make our service relevant all the time. Are there any other matters to
come before this committee? OK. I'm not waiting for long. Hearing none, this next meeting will be
Wednesday, March 8.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Guzman.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, Director Guzman. Where are you?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Hello.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir. Other matters?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for the robust conversation. Thank you for taking on the matters that are
here and that we have to deal with. And thank you for the work on the new scheduling information.
I just want to point out that that's what we're here for. And these typical policy decisions are stuff that we
have to work on. And they go through committees sometimes, and they go to the Board sometimes. Even
though we may not be in agreement, I think it's really important to recognize that each other are doing this
work.
And I've got DUS in my district, so let me just be honest with you. I'm frustrated now that I am not on this
committee. I'm relying on you to bring this back to the Board, and I'll have my chance to speak over there
a little bit more. But I am in DUS every day.
And if you don't know what that is, it's Denver Union Station. I had to learn the acronym myself. With my
backpack, a Brown man walking through there, and I can be confused for any number of things. So I do
know that we as a team have to thread this needle. And it's not comfortable, and these conversations
aren't going to get any easier.
But taking a moment to talk about this and hearing the input from everybody is important. And so I just
want to thank you for sharing a very difficult conversation and for everybody's opinion on the matter. But
there's more to do, so we got to roll up our sleeves and dig in on it because we are the policymaking
Board for this agency.
And we cannot defer that to anybody else. It cannot go anywhere else. It's ours and ours alone. So thank
you for the opportunity to speak, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I was in Union Station myself this morning, so I get it. OK, anybody
else? Last bite of the apple? Everybody wants to go home. OK.
Again, our next meeting is Wednesday, March 8 at the same time at the same place. There's a slight
deviation from our standard meeting cadence so that directors and staff can attend the APTA Legislative
Conference the week of March 12. But generically, you can find all this information if you go to RTDdenver.com.
On that note, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all so much for bearing with us and for your input. And
good evening. We are adjourned at-- what time is it? It is 8:26 unless anybody wants to hang out. Bye.

