1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Paul Rosenthal, District E
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 2, 2021
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting: Register Here (connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or to listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 896 0909 8751#
Webinar Passcode: 748404#

Communications & Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Lynn Guissinger

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Other Matters

• RTD Accountability Committee Dialogue – Co-Chairs Elise Jones and Crystal Murillo
• Communications Overview
• Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal
D. Next Meeting Date - April 6, 2021
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
RTD Accountability Committee

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (PPTX)

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
Approved by:

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 3

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

RTD ACCOUNTABILITY COMMITTEE OVERVIEW
• RTD Board of Directors
• Communications & Government Relations Committee
• February 2nd, 2021

• Elise Jones, RTD Accountability
Committee Co- Chair
• Crystal Murillo, RTD Accountability
Committee Co-Chair

Packet Pg. 4

COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Member

Position

Elise Jones
Deyanira Zavala
Rutt Bridges
Chris Frampton

Representative of local government
Transportation equity expertise
Financial planning expertise
Economic development expertise

Rebecca White
Crystal Murillo
Jackie Millet
Julie Duran Mullica
Kathy Nesbitt
Dan Blankenship
Krystin Trustman
Lynn Guissinger
Troy Whitmore

Urban planning expertise
Aurora City Council member
Mayor of Lone Tree
Northglenn City Council Member
Human resources expertise
Multi-modal expertise
Expertise with issues facing transit riders with disabilities
RTD Board Member- Ex Officio
RTD Board Member- Ex Officio
2

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

MISSION

To provide feedback and a set of recommendations for
improvement to the operations of and statutes related to RTD, to
the board and staff of the RTD, the Governor, the General
Assembly, and the public.

We are here to provide guidance to help RTD better serve the
region.

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

OVERARCHING GOALS
• Provide constructive tangible guidance for RTD that will help
them improve the way they deliver vital mobility for our
community.
• Contribute to a future for the Denver region where there are
multimodal mobility options that serve the needs of all people
regardless of income or abilities.
• Review each of the Committee responsibilities and form
subgroups and engage others when necessary and/or
appropriate to formulate concrete recommendations.
• Leverage the experience, intellect, and diverse perspectives
that we have on this committee by working collaboratively.
4

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

REVIEW
• Recent financials
• RTD governance structure
and leadership

• How RTD can better serve all
riders
• individuals with disabilities,

• Short-term and long-term
prioritization of resources

• transit-dependent populations,

• Determine long-range
financial stability

• address coverage gaps,

• expand ridership,
• route planning,
• service area coverage

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

TIMELINE
July 2020 – Committee Convened
December 31, 2020 – Optional Preliminary Report
July 1, 2021- Committee recommendations due
Within 45 days of issuance of the report- RTD Board must
either adopt the recommendations or issue a report stating its
reasons for not adopting specific recommendations

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

ON CALL CONSULTING

• Hired North Highland to provide additional support on as
needed basis:
• guidance,
• research,
• document development,
• facilitation,
• and related needs as they arise.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

SUBCOMMITTEES

• Governance

• Finance

• Operations

8

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

GOVERNANCE SUBCOMMITTEE
• Alternative regional/subregional governance structure
• Partnerships with other transit agencies & nonprofits
• RTD’s service area
• Size and structure of RTD Board

9

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE
• More sustainable financial model
• Use of COVID-19 relief funds
• Review of RTD statues
• Resolution for unfinished FasTracks Corridors
• Financial transparency
• Partnership opportunities to enhance mobility services
10

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

OPERATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE
• RTD fares and pass programs
• Service delivery to transit-reliant populations
• Community-based transit service planning and operations
• Organizational assessment
• Social/environmental justice and equity analysis
11

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

PRELIMINARY REPORT
Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 15

PRELIMINARY REPORT

• Information about the Committee
• Status report for each subcommittee
• Proposed legislative recommendations for consideration
by the Governor and General Assembly in the 2021
Legislative Session

13

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

LEGISLATIVE RECOMMENDATIONS
• Recommendations are focused on statutory restrictions that
have the potential to provide RTD with greater flexibility and
opportunity to improve its finances and/or ridership
• Farebox ratio requirements
• Parking fees
• Commercial & residential uses at stations
• Contracting with local governments & nonprofits

14

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

RTD Accountability Committee Co-Chairs
Elise Jones
Crystal Murillo
Attachment: RTD Accountability- RTD Board 2-2-2021 (4470 : RTD Accountability Committee)

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 18

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

Communications Overview

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 Minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) Board of Directors holds a bi-monthly Communications and
Government Relations Committee meeting. The meeting is an opportunity for the Communications
Department staff to provide the Board with an overview of communications activities and progress,
highlighting matters of interest to Board members. Staff and the Board also engage in dialogue and staff
fields questions or clarifies information as necessary.
DISCUSSION
Below are some of the notable communications highlights included in this month’s committee report. A
more comprehensive overview is included as an attachment to this report.
•

•

Upcoming Station Outreach Events
RTD staff will hold outreach events at some of the busiest stations to distribute hand sanitizer and
express appreciation to customers for using RTD. Staff will also distribute hand sanitizer at RTD
Sales Outlets and transportation management organization/association (TMO/TMA) partners will
distribute hand sanitizer at additional station outreach events that they plan. Below is a list of the
RTD- sponsored outreach activities:
Date
Location
2/10/2021 Aurora Metro Center Station

Time
4-6 p.m.

2/11/2021 I-25 & Broadway Station

6:30-8:30 a.m.

2/16/2021 Decatur-Federal Station

4-6 p.m.

2/17/2021 Peoria Station

6:30-8:30 a.m.

2/23/2021 Denver Airport Station

4-6 p.m.

2/24/2021 Colorado Station

6:30-8:30 a.m.

2/24/2021 Nine Mile Station

6:30-8:30 a.m.

3/2/2021

Wagon Road

4-6 p.m.

3/3/2021

40th & Airport

6:30-8:30 a.m.

N Line Customer Survey

Packet Pg. 19

1.C.2

Staff will conduct a brief, informal survey of N Line customers to gauge ridership behavior and the
relationship between ridership and the N Line Promotional Fare. The N Line Promotional Fare Pilot
Program was implemented in September 2020 following the N Line opening and ends March 27,
2021. The pilot offers customers a $3 Local fare regardless of which station they use. When the
pilot period concludes, the fare will shift to the established RTD fare structure with a Regional fare of
$5.25 being charged if customers use the Northglenn-112th or Eastlake-124th stations. N Line
customers will be able to take a hard copy of the survey and mail it in or complete the survey online.
The survey will also ask if customers’ stations will change when the promotional fare ends. Below is
a list of the days/times staff will partner with Smart Commute at N Line station events to distribute
hand sanitizer and survey participation information:
Date
Location
2/2/2021 Eastlake-124th

Time
6:30-9:30 a.m.

2/2/2021 Eastlake-124th

9:30 a.m-12:30 p.m.

2/2/2021 Eastlake-124th

12:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m.

2/2/2021 Eastlake-124th

3:30-6:30 p.m.

2/3/2021 Northglenn-112th

6:30-9:30 a.m.

2/3/2021 Northglenn-112th

9:30 a.m-12:30 p.m.

2/3/2021 Northglenn-112th

12:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m.

2/3/2021 Northglenn-112th

3:30-6:30 p.m.

•

Enhanced Stakeholder Engagement
Staff will launch an overarching enhanced approach to stakeholder engagement across the agency as
a continuous effort to foster open dialogue. This will be an opportunity for the Board and staff to
hear directly from key stakeholders on RTD matters that matter most to them. One aspect will be to
hold stakeholder engagement sessions at the beginning of the next service change process to hear
about their communities’ experiences with RTD. The listening phase will begin this month as part of
the June service change process. This feedback will help inform RTD’s plans.

•

New Government Relations Officer
After an extensive recruitment process, Michael Davies joins RTD as the agency’s new Government
Relations Officer. Mr. Davies has 17 years of local, state and federal government relations experience
with a focus on federal government affairs. Previously, Mr. Davies held progressively responsible
roles in the office of U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein and comes to RTD from Washington, D.C. after
working for several years as assistant director of government relations for federal affairs on behalf of
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LA Metro).

FINANCIAL IMPACT
None

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications

Packet Pg. 20

1.C.2

Approved by:

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 21

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal

Committee Meeting Date:
February 2, 2021

STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Local – Roger Sherman, Partner - CRL Associates, Inc.
State – Jenifer Brandeberry, Partner - Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs
Federal – Patricia H. Doersch, Partner - Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
PRESENTATION LENGTH
Local - 10 minutes
State - 10 minutes
Federal - 10 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Regional Transportation District (RTD) has a Government Relations Program facilitated and overseen
by the agency’s Government Relations Officer. Part of the role of the Government Relations Officer is
directing the work of the local, state and federal lobbyists that represent the agency. The lobbyists work
collaboratively with RTD’s General Manager and CEO, staff and Board members to advance policy and
legislative initiatives, as well as develop strategies for positioning the agency’s governmental interests.
The lobbyist teams provide regular reports and updates as needed throughout each month, and bimonthly each team submits a written report and follows up with a verbal report for the Board’s
Communications and Government Relations Committee meeting. The bi-monthly written reports are
attachments to this report.
DISCUSSION
The agency’s local, state and federal lobbyists will provide an oral update on the latest developments of
interest to RTD for each level of government.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None
ATTACHMENTS:
•

CRL LGR Report 01-22-21

•

RTD Feb Board Report (PDF)

•

RTD Federal Update - Jan 22 2021

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 22

1.C.3

Authorized:

Packet Pg. 23

Date:

January 22, 2021

To:

Christina Zazueta

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

1. Metro Mayors Caucus – The Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) Transportation & Mobility
Committee will meet on February 2 at 10 a.m. The focus will be a discussion of transportation
principals and fee proposals within the SB19-239 report in anticipation of a bill being filed this
year. There also will likely be a short discussion on the RTD Accountability Committee’s Interim
Report, although the topic is not on the formal agenda. The MMC continues to meet on the first
and third Thursday’s via Zoom for “mayors only” discussions. It remains unclear when they will
return to having open full caucus meetings. The annual retreat typically held in January was
cancelled due to COVID-19.
2. Citizens Advisory Committee – The Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) met virtually on
January 20. The Committee received updates from Mike Meader and Bob Grado regarding the
implementation of changes in the Code of Conduct adopted by the Board last year, COVID
response and the upcoming peer review by APTA. The Committee also met with Pauletta Tonilas
to discuss current communication initiatives, CEO/GM and board engagement plans, and the
success of RTD’s News Stop. In February, the CAC will be updated on the DRCOG 2050 Metro
Vision Regional Transportation Plan and participate in a new service change engagement work
session including a short presentation about the service change, followed by open dialogue
between CAC members and Service Planning.
3. District Snapshot – We will be sending out a district snapshot of local elected officials and their
contact information. The November elections included five counties (Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas and Jefferson) and municipal elections in two towns (Parker and Superior). CRL is
working closely with the Communications team to support enhanced engagement with these key
stakeholders.
4. A Way Forward Coalition - The A Way Forward Coalition is a coalition of over 40
organizations working to pass a bipartisan transportation infrastructure funding bill to fund the
CDOT 10 year. The MMC issued the attached statement in December outlining its concerns and
priorities. To sign up for the summit, visit http://www.awayforwardcolorado.com/. The Coalition
will be hosting a transportation summit on Jan. 26th. This is a process we need to monitor closely.

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800, Denver, CO 80264 p. 303.592.5450 f. 303.592.5460 www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-22-21 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

1.C.3.a

1.C.3.a

Motor fuels taxes, which Colorado relies on to fund transportation and mobility, were last raised
by the legislature in 1991. With the 1992 passage of TABOR, our fuel taxes stalled at 22¢/gallon.
This paralysis, combined with gains in efficiency, has resulted in Colorado drivers paying just
85¢/day for roads.1 However, there is a much higher indirect cost due to a lack of mobility
options, poor road conditions, and safety, environmental and quality of life impacts. It has been
apparent for decades that motor fuels taxes simply cannot support Colorado’s mobility needs.
We applaud the leadership being exercised by our legislature in evaluating new statewide and
regional funding approaches. But, as we do this, it is critical that we do not carry forward
outdated formulas and statutory constraints that do not reflect the Colorado of today or make
progress toward our desired future. To this end we support modernization of the revenue
structure, reevaluation of our spending priorities and taking a more equitable approach to
allocating available revenues.
Modernization of Revenue Structures: The Metro Mayors Caucus recognizes that new sources
of revenue are critical to replacing declining motor fuels tax revenues. We have invested
significant effort into developing statewide consensus for new transportation funding, supported
3 statewide transportation proposals in the last decade, and will continue to work for the “big
fix” that brings Colorado to the forefront of comprehensive statewide mobility investments2. This
includes evaluating how revenue structures can be adapted to offset declines in the gas tax
revenues due to inflation and to reflect the impacts of new mobility trends including mobility
providers, freight, and micro delivery — all of which increasingly impact vehicle miles traveled. It
is important that all users pay an equitable share to offset their impacts to our transportation
infrastructure and that these structures be put in place as soon as possible. We look forward to
reviewing and providing feedback as legislative proposals are introduced. Additionally, given our
tremendous transportation backlog in metro areas across the state, we strongly encourage the
legislature to provide new tools that simplify regional collaborations on mobility investments.
Spending Priorities: With new and innovative statewide funding mechanisms in place, the Metro
Mayors Caucus would prioritize investments that address the backlog of critical mobility needs
and improve safety, reliability, social equity, and sustainability. Transportation investments
should manage congestion, support economic vitality, advance efforts to comply with the Clean
Air Act, and help combat climate change. As such, greater resources should be directed to
1
2

CO & federal fuel taxes, FASTER & registration fees
MMC Supported HB17-1242, Proposition 110 in 2018 and Referendum CC in 2019

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-22-21 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

Transportation Statement December 21, 2020

1.C.3.a

Formula Allocations: Colorado’s Highway Users Tax Fund “HUTF” formulas3 should not be
applied to any new revenue sources. HUTF distributions of motor fuel taxes and various fees are
statutorily allocated according to two formulas developed many decades ago. Neither
population, nor vehicle miles traveled (VMT) are directly accounted for in the HUTF formulas for
allocation of transportation dollars. Therefore, these formulas perpetuate a cycle of
disinvestment where dollars generated primarily by travel in and residents of urbanized areas
are invested elsewhere.
Since the 1980s, Colorado’s
population
has
nearly
doubled, and this growth has
concentrated in urbanized
areas. Colorado has 64
Counties. Yet, by 2018, more
than 83% of Coloradans lived within the 16 counties that comprise Colorado’s five metropolitan
planning organizations (MPOs). The residents of these 16 counties also generate nearly 90% of
Colorado’s GDP.
Because the HUTF formulas focus primarily on miles of pavement to be maintained, on average,
counties statewide receive $263 per capita and municipalities statewide receive $46 per capita
from the local share of the HUTF. But within the densely populated boundaries of DRCOG, the
combined city and county allocation is less than $43 per capita4. This disparity is also seen in
CDOT’s investments; with 57% of the state’s population, 30M visitors in 2017 alone, and 50% of
state highway VMT, the Denver region has historically received just 38-41% of CDOT’s share of
HUTF investment. This is not a sustainable level of investment and is detrimental to our efforts
to improve access to opportunity, address our air quality challenges, meet our GHG goals, and
provide the quality of life that has made Colorado a great place to live and work. As the legislature
evaluates new statewide revenue options, the formulas to allocate new revenue distributions
must be updated to take into better account population and VMT to create a clear nexus between
where revenues are generated and where they are invested.
Thank you for your efforts to put transportation and mobility on the 2021 legislative agenda. We
appreciate the opportunity to provide input on how we can move forward with a more equitable
transportation funding formula and position our regions with the tools to address our backlog of
critical mobility needs.

3
4

CO Rev Stat § 43-4-205 (2016)
2018 HUTF data

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-22-21 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

multimodal transportation and projects that facilitate our attainment of federal air quality
standards and Colorado’s GHG targets set in HB19-1261.

1.C.3.b

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | www.bbmk.com

RTD

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)
Date: January 22, 2021
Re:

Board Report

On Thursday January 21st RTD General Manager Debra Johnson and Board Chair Rivera
Malpiede presented to the Legislative Audit Committee. Board members Guissinger, Caitlin and
Whitmore were in attendance as was Michael Ford and Doug McCloud of RTD staff. The
auditors were complimentary in their opening comments about the transparency and ease of
working with RTD staff, Interim General Manager Ballard and General Manager Johnson.
Ms. Collins of the audit staff released the audit to the committee and public and reminded
members that Colorado statute requires the state to do an audit every five years of the District’s
operations. She stated that this current audit focused on operator turnover and as well as a
legislative request regarding whether the RTD had met their farebox recovery statutory
requirements. After a brief overview of the District, the auditors went through in detail the
results of the audit and GM Johnson and Chair Rivera Malpiede provided substantive responses
to committee questions, articulated background information and agreed with the auditors’
findings. The bi-partisan committee was interested in the substance of the audit and were
impressed with both the GM and RTD Board chair. BBMK received positive feedback from
committee members about the new leadership and Board but it is clear based on some of the
comments both during the committee hearing and in the press that the Agency has limited time to
re-build confidence among many members of the General Assembly.
RTD will present virtually to the House and Senate Joint Transportation Committee on January
27 at 3:00pm. For board members interested in listening here is the link https://sg001harmony.sliq.net/00327/Harmony/en/View/UpcomingEvents/20210122/34.
BBMK anticipates receiving a draft copy of the accountability board legislation by January 27th
and we continue to communicate regularly with the House and Senate sponsors. Both sponsors
apologized to BBMK and RTD for the delay in sharing a draft as promised.
BBMK anticipates that the 2021 legislative session will begin in earnest on February 16 as most
members of the General Assembly will have received vaccinations. The Executive Committee
continues to meet to work through the details of remote testimony and public participation.
ACCOUNTABILITY COMMITTEE
BBMK monitored the most recent accountability committee meetings the proceedings of which
are summarized below:
January 20, 2021 RTD AC Finance Subcommittee Meeting 9
• https://drcog.org/node/981062
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: RTD Feb Board Report (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

To:

• Agenda
On January 20, 2021, the finance subcommittee of the RTD accountability committee discussed
the new federal COVID-19 relief funding and RTD’s debt obligations. During discussion
regarding federal relief funds, General Manager Johnson highlighted that the funds will be used
primarily to recall represented front line employees and eliminate mandatory furlough days. The
subcommittee then presented potential uses of this funding beyond those outlined by RTD staff.
These uses include potential vaccination incentives such as free transit to vaccination locations
and 15-day free transit upon verification of a vaccine completion as well as changes to RTD
services such as low, flat rate fare pilots, increasing the scope of pass programs, and sharing
some of RTD’s federal funding with other transit partners. The subcommittee will continue to
discuss these potential uses and formulate recommendations for the next RTD accountability
committee meeting February 8th. Rebecca White will also continue to formulate a
recommendation around spending transparency of RTD’s federal relief funding. RTD’s Interim
CFO, Doug MacLeod, presented RTD’s total debt obligation. Subcommittee members will
continue to investigate how these debt obligations are hurting RTD’s ability to finish projects
such as the Northwest Rail. These investigations will continue considering what current levels of
ridership can support.
January 20, 2021 RTD AC Operations Subcommittee Meeting 10
• https://drcog.org/node/981038
• Agenda
On January 20, 2021, the operations subcommittee of the RTD accountability committee met
with various stakeholders on the topic of fixed route services. Before discussing fixed route
services, Interim CFO, Doug MacLeod followed up on how much cost RTD accumulates
through pass programs. 3.5% of fare revenue is used for cost collection processes. DRCOG staff
will investigate how this compares to other transit agencies. Regarding fixed route services, the
subcommittee engaged the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition (CCDC) and officials from the
Auraria campus. CCDC provided the operations subcommittee with 5 items of interest: (1) zero
scaped light rail entrances, (2) increase wayfinding, (3) incorporate multimodal stations on RTD
property, (4) designate areas for last mile services such as rideshare, and (5) address bus stops
that are not accessible for all riders. Subcommittee member Crystal Murillo asked how RTD
could promote sidewalk maintenance when most are on private property. The solution proposed
was modeled after Englewood, CO which collects an extra property tax that individuals can then
access to pay for sidewalk repairs. A representative from the Auraria campus, representing
business interests, outlined the services utilized on campus.
January 21, 2021 RTD AC Governance Subcommittee Meeting 10
• https://drcog.org/node/981139
• Agenda
On January 21, 2021, the governance subcommittee of the RTD accountability committee
discussed the travel shed corridors to be used in the subregional governance model and the future
schedule for the subcommittee. DRCOG staff, Doug Rex, will reconvene the technical staff
working group to develop a subregional governance model recommendation. The subcommittee
will work to finalize a recommendation by the second week of February. Subcommittee
members expressed concerns about how many jurisdictions would be involved in one service

2
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: RTD Feb Board Report (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

1.C.3.b

council as well as interest in requesting state funding for RTD to meet the state’s emission goals.
A conversation about how to fund these RTD partnerships and innovative solutions was also had
by subcommittee members, highlighting the need for local partnerships around funding. Chair
Julie Mullica outlined the future subcommittee deadlines below:
• Mid-February: finalize a subregional governance structure recommendation
• End of February: provide a recommendation about how to enable RTD partnerships with
other transit agencies
• End of March: address the size and structure of the RTD service area
• May: finalize all recommendations
DRCOG staff will coordinate between subcommittees on areas that overlap.

3
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: RTD Feb Board Report (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

1.C.3.b

1.C.3.c
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
2550 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037
+1 202 457 6000
+1 202 457 6315
squirepattonboggs.com
O
F

To:

Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD)

From:

Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP

Date:

January 22, 2021

Subject:

A New President and A New Session of Congress: What These Changes Mean for
the Federal Transit Program and for RTD

THE BIDEN ADMINISTRATION AND THE NEW FEDERAL LANDSCAPE
Joseph R. Biden, Jr. was sworn in as the 46th President of the United States on January 20 under
extraordinary circumstances. Beyond the demands of addressing the COVID pandemic, the
polarized electorate will make governing more difficult because it makes finding common ground
more difficult. Additionally, Biden’s sizable margin of victory in the popular vote and Electoral
College did not translate into the expected number of down-ballot wins in the House and Senate.
So even after the upset wins of both Georgia Senate seats on January 5, Democrats control both
chambers by the narrowest of margins.

Transit is expected to fare well under Biden’s initial four policy priorities.
For President Biden, conquering COVID is Job One – a prerequisite to all Biden hopes to
accomplish under his climate change, equity, and economic recovery priorities.
Biden will address the pandemic and its impacts in two stages. First, Biden on January 14
announced his $1.9 trillion “American Rescue Plan,” for which he seeks bipartisan support. That
proposal includes direct COVID countermeasures like funding for increased vaccinations. It also
includes the pieces Democrats view as missing from the December COVID relief bill: funding for
State and local governments and an additional $1,400 in direct relief payments to individuals.
Significantly, the only specific transportation / infrastructure funding in this first proposal is $20
billion for public transportation. As a summary of that proposal explains, Biden aims to keep
transit operators on the job, while “ensuring that communities of color maintain the access of
opportunity that public transportation provides.”
The second Biden proposal, which he will unveil before a joint session of Congress next month, will
be geared toward recovery; this is likely to include additional infrastructure funding. This second
proposal will be much more ambitious, more expensive, and likely more partisan (e.g., with climate
change countermeasures) than his COVID relief plan, so Biden is already examining ways to
advance this through the budget reconciliation process. Budget reconciliation requires a simple

45 Offices in 20 Countries
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP is part of the international legal practice Squire Patton Boggs, which operates worldwide through a number of separate
legal entities.

1

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: RTD Federal Update - Jan 22 2021 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

Federal Update

1.C.3.c

majority vote, rather than the standard 60-vote threshold of the Senate – making it theoretically
possible to pass legislation in the Senate without any Republican support.

Requiring masks on all public transit is among President Biden’s early executive
actions
Within his first hours in office, President Biden sought to fulfill campaign pledges through actions
he can take himself, without legislation. Several of these changes reflect his commitment to an
aggressive Federal response to the pandemic.
While transit agencies nationwide already have mask mandates, Biden has taken action on the
national level to protect transit operators and riders from COVID. On his first full day in office,
President Biden signed an executive order titled “Promoting COVID-19 Safety in Domestic and
International Travel.” Among the provisions in the order is one requiring masks on “all forms of
public transportation as defined in section 5302 of title 49, United States Code,” which is broadly
defined as “regular, continuing shared-ride surface transportation services that are open to the
general public or open to a segment of the general public defined by age, disability, or low income
….” This term defines funding eligibility under the Federal transit program, so if a type of service is
eligible for public transportation funding under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, then that
service is covered by the President’s mask requirement.

The Biden Administration is moving quickly to fill US DOT positions
Biden is ahead of his predecessors in naming nominees and appointees across his Administration.
In general, he is drawing on former Federal officials with experience in the programs and agencies
they will oversee. Biden recently announced that New York City Transportation Commissioner
Polly Trottenberg will serve as Deputy Secretary. Trottenberg served as Under Secretary of
Transportation for Policy in the Obama Administration and, before that, on Capitol Hill for Sen.
Schumer (D-NY) and former Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-NY).
On January 19, Biden announced Nuria Fernandez, CEO and general manager of the Santa Clara
County Valley Transportation Authority, as his nominee for head of the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA). She will begin service as the Deputy FTA Administrator – an appointed
position not requiring Senate confirmation and the same position she held under the Clinton
Administration. Fernandez is highly respected across the transportation industry, having served in
leadership roles at agencies in New York, Chicago, and Washington, DC.

117TH SESSION OF CONGRESS
Plans for Senate governance are still uncertain
Senate leaders Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Chuck Schumer (D-NY) seek to reach a power-sharing
agreement to govern the Senate; this deal has proved elusive so far. Complicating their efforts – and
potentially delaying action on Biden’s two-part legislative agenda – is the lack of agreement on
conducting the impeachment hearing of Donald Trump. Without an agreement between the two

2

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: RTD Federal Update - Jan 22 2021 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

Transit should fare well under this plan, as it is expected to focus on “shovel worthy” projects –
smart, resilient, green investment – rather than projects that can break ground immediately but do
not address Biden’s key goals of mitigating climate change and addressing racial and social equity.

1.C.3.c

party leaders, the impeachment proceeding will take precedence over all other Senate business once
the House formally transmits the article of impeachment, which is expected to occur on January 25.

With Democrats now in the majority in the Senate, Sherrod Brown (D-OH) takes over as Chairman
of the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, which has jurisdiction over transit. To
many transit stakeholders, this is a welcome change in leadership. While it is typical for the
Committee to prioritize banking and housing issues over transit, Senator Brown brings a
longstanding commitment to transit to his role as Chairman. As a Democrat from Ohio, Brown
strongly supports organized labor and efforts to support US jobs generally, including robust Buy
America requirements in Federal transit grant programs. Accordingly, we expect that the
Committee will be more engaged during the reauthorization of surface transportation programs this
year than it was in prior authorization cycles.

Buttigieg is expected to be confirmed soon, after a straightforward Senate hearing
On January 21, the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee held its confirmation
hearing for Pete Buttigieg, US Secretary of Transportation nominee. Buttigieg’s written testimony
explained transportation’s role in advancing the President’s ambitious climate change and equity
priorities and included the same commitment to safety that guides every US Secretary of
Transportation. Only after the hearing did Buttigieg make news when his spokesperson clarified
that Buttigieg does not support raising the Federal gas tax as a means to fund infrastructure
investment. Buttigieg is not a controversial appointment, and the nomination of several seasoned
former Federal executives to the Department can mitigate concerns with his limited transportation
experience, so he is expected to be confirmed by the Senate soon.

FY 2022 appropriations bills are the next opportunity to advance our RRIF CRP fix
Each Spring marks the start of the annual appropriations process in Congress. In addition to
pursuing our RRIF CRP fix in the surface transportation authorization bills expected to move this
year through the House and Senate, we will also use the FY 2022 appropriations process to push for
the fix, and will submit formal appropriations requests in the coming weeks to all members of
RTD’s congressional delegation. Support for our fix among RTD’s entire congressional delegation,
as well as House authorizers and appropriators, remains strong.

3

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: RTD Federal Update - Jan 22 2021 (4466 : Lobbyist Reports - Local/State/Federal)

A transit champion takes control of the Senate Banking Committee

