2020-11-11 Ad Hoc Safety and Security 3
LYNN GUISSINGER: --wanted to be sure I wasn't missing something.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know, me too. I was like, uh-oh.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. And I forwarded all the documents that were requested from the
Operations Committee to you guys and the full group last night. So we'll discuss that as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you send that to just internally or did it go to DRCOG? Is that what you mean?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I sent it to Doug and to Matthew so that they would have it in front of them for the
discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. You know what? I'm going to go ahead and call the meeting. It is
8:05, and it is November 11, 2020. This is the Security Ad Hoc Committee. I have Chief Grado, Assistant
General Manager Dave Jensen, our new CEO Debra Johnson, John McKay from our Board Office,
Director Guissinger, Marisela Sandoval, our General Counsel for this committee, Mr. Meader, our
Assistant General Manager. I have Director Shontel Lewis, Deputy Steven Martingano. And then
additionally, I have-- I think I've got all of everybody else. I think we're good to go.
So the first thing I need to say is that for our safety moment, as you know, RTD takes safety very, very
seriously. And in light of the resurgence of the COVID, we are just once again asking everybody to wear a
mask when you're out and about, stay six feet away from each other, and wash your hands.
And with that, I want to make just one more announcement. You know, last week some of the
conversation was around community input. And I want to announce that starting next week we will have
public participation. So we're going to reconfigure this system to see how we do it. But starting next
Wednesday, folks can call in and ask questions. I don't think we'll respond then. We'll get the information
and then do it later. But we just want to make sure the community has a voice in this process.
With that, I'm going to turn it over to you, Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you very much, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
Well, good morning, everyone. Thank you again for joining. I know I'd just do a real quick recap here of
kind of what we've covered so far. And everyone has the agenda for today. We've talked about just kind
of the history of RTD's security model, how we've transitioned throughout the years as we've grown.
We've talked about really what led us to the place we're in right now. We've talked about the roles of each
of the really critical parts of that security model, our contracted security, our transit police, our secondary
employment police officers that we have, the mental health clinician that works with us.
And we spoke last week-- and I apologize for being gone. I had had a trip scheduled for a long time to
Peru. It was canceled because of the COVID. So we decided to go out to Canyonlands and backpack and
hike for a few days. So that was really a good break. So I apologize for missing that.
But I know last week we had some guests on, the mental health clinician, Danielle, spoke. And we also
had Kimberly Ford come on and talk a lot about the efforts that we're doing and trying to make from a
homeless outreach perspective, and a new piece of that model that we're going to have join us next year,
and that's a homeless outreach coordinator. So just some really fantastic progress we're making there to
really make sure we're addressing the needs of those people that are experiencing homelessness, as

well as those people that are experiencing some mental health challenges. So we wanted to make sure
those were clear, the roles and responsibilities.
And then today, as the Chief just mentioned, we're going to get into the meat of some things that we've
been, as a security group, as a team, really been looking at reimagining how we're deploying security
right now, all of those different facets, what are the needs that we have, and how can we really kind of
really transition that into an organization that gives us, number one, better control of the people that are
out there keeping the system safe.
Because that is a core value of ours, obviously. It's in our mission statement. It's in our purpose. And
that's the primary goal of what we want to accomplish here. And so we're going to talk a lot about that
transition to becoming more of a transit police force. Those other elements are going to still have to
remain, to some degree, in some capacity. And the Chief will speak to that as well.
But I wanted to make sure we walked through kind of what that vision is, how we see this transition taking
place. Of course, we want to hear your feedback. Ask the questions. Please don't hesitate. We really
need that. We need a lot of eyes on this as we do it.
And so I'm going to, without further ado, turn it over to the Chief and let him kind of walk through what
we've looked at, where we want to be, and how we really hope to be able to get there. OK? So thank you
very much for that, Chief. I'll turn it over to you.
ROBERT GRADO: All right. Good morning, everybody, and thank you again for your help and
participation in this. So like I said earlier, we are going to get into the meat here.
Some things-- you know, we've been listening. Really, the cool thing about our organization, or our police
agency, if you will, is we work for the District. We're different and we can model ourselves really however
we want to. So with that in mind, what I'm going to cover today is a multi-phase, it's a five phased
approach. And I'll share my screen here in a moment. But it gets us some of the things we've been talking
about.
I'm just going
to go through a list here really quick. One thing, I've talked to some peer agencies and we're missing a
piece here. Most agencies have what they refer to as a field auditor, so an internal person. When you
have contracted security, these people will go out, they'll, on a daily basis, they'll inspect security officers,
they'll look at uniforms, they'll ask for post orders, they'll just check and see how things are going. So it
gives you that accountability with the agency.
And again, this reorg that we're going to talk through covers all this. We know we're going to have the
homeless outreach full-time person through the Hope grant coming on board.
Another piece we're missing is crime analysis. We're-SHONTEL LEWIS: Chief Grado, can you send this out to our email so that we might follow along?
ROBERT GRADO: We can do that. Barbara, can you help me out with that? Now I am going to share my
screen here momentarily.
MIKE MEADER: I believe it was sent yesterday, Director Lewis, from Miss McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, we do have it. It's entitled, I think, the UCLA Homeless. Is
that correct?
ROBERT GRADO: No. That was actually, that was a study that we provided.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I was looking for the items that are on the agenda, the packet. The agenda is
one to two pages, but there are a number of items that are listed but there's no content. And so I'd like to
be able to follow along with the content that you all are referencing.
MIKE MEADER: I believe-ROBERT GRADO: Are you there, Barbara?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: John, are you on?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
ROBERT GRADO: Did we send that out? I think you said you were going to attach it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I sent everything out that I received from you. But I'll go back and check, Bob, in
the meantime.
ROBERT GRADO: OK. And if you can make sure the latest one. Because the first one I sent, I had a
couple errors in there that we fixed. I sent a second email.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. OK, I'll look again.
ROBERT GRADO: I apologize, everybody. Excuse me.
So I'm going to run through my list. Again, like I said, we've been listening. There's another phase to this
that actually takes the TSOs, our security officers, out of the fare enforcement business and replaces,
eventually, once we work our way through these phases, the entire system will have conductors that will
be responsible for that.
It also removes security officers from the first responder mode-- that's a concern I've had all along-- and
replaces the first responder process with sworn police officers.
We get up to four mental health clinicians throughout this. And that starts next year. And then we also
have a community outreach aspect to this. And we have full-time internal affairs investigators and
auditors that will go through it.
So I am going to share my screen.
MIKE MEADER: And Director Lewis, I noticed your hand is up. Did you have another question, or was it
just up from the last question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It was up from the last question. I'm sorry.
MIKE MEADER: OK. Thank you. Just wanted to make sure you didn't have a question. Go ahead, Chief.
ROBERT GRADO: OK. Are you guys seeing an org chart?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I'm seeing your calendar.
ROBERT GRADO: OK, let me try this. Oh, this thing is such a pain. Hang on one second.
MIKE MEADER: It's good to see you're really busy, though.
ROBERT GRADO: I'll try this again.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm sorry I'm late, you guys. My computer rebooted itself and is still rebooting itself.
So I'm joining you by phone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams.
ROBERT GRADO: OK. Do you see an org chart now?
MIKE MEADER: Yes.
ROBERT GRADO: Do I need to zoom in, or are we good with what we got here?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, zoom in, please.
MIKE MEADER: It is an eye test, yes.

ROBERT GRADO: OK. I don't know if this helps.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's a little better.
ROBERT GRADO: But boy, it's gigantic on my screen.
All right. I'm going to start here. So anything you see in the dark blue or light blue, all these folks here,
and then over here, this is our dispatch center. Everybody that's in a blue color already exists. These are
existing positions.
So I'm going to go through another sheet here momentarily. But what I've done on this is each year,
there's a color for each year that we would phase into these programs as we expand internally. And
again, as we do this, the idea is to reallocate internal funds. That is the ultimate goal is to get through this
thing without creating any further cost. So it's going to be a process.
Again, this is just an org chart. It's not really helpful. So let me get out of this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to understand that you're adding all of the positions that aren't in blue.
ROBERT GRADO: Yes.
MIKE MEADER: And Director Guissinger, this is Mike Meader. One of the things we're-- and I wanted to
reiterate, too, what Chief Grado said real quick, while he's pulling this other thing up-- is we have been
listening, talking to a lot of folks. I spend a lot of time out in the District talking with our own employees as
well as passengers, just so that I can keep my finger on the pulse of this.
We talk extensively with our peer agencies, with the things that they're doing, best practices. We share
those things on an absolute regular basis. Obviously, listening to the things that all of you are saying, as
well as we think through this. Your question obviously was, perhaps, wow, those were a lot of people
we're going to be adding into our transit police organization.
And again, as the Chief goes through this, you'll see that this is what gives us the most control of our
resources. It's what gives us the most flexibility. They're all sworn law enforcement police officers that go
through a tremendous amount of training. And all of that, again, we can share with you, or re-share with
you, all of the training that they go through, not just from a law enforcement perspective but from a civil
rights perspective and an equality perspective and an equity perspective, all of those kinds of things that
they go through and they go through every single year.
So we know we have the most highly trained, most flexible, and the most control. And as the Chief said
also, what it does is it also creates the least liability for us, as these are all RTD employees. So that's kind
of just the overriding direction or the overriding thought processes that we have here. And so I'll let the
Chief kind of walk through it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks.
ROBERT GRADO: OK. And I'll go quickly I know it was painful the last couple of weeks with, we kind of
get down in the weeds pretty far with some of this stuff. So like Mike saidBARBARA MCMANUS: Bob?
ROBERT GRADO: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. I just sent it out to everybody. I apologize. It was in my
draft box. I knew I attempted to send it. I just didn't realize that I must have gotten distracted. My
apologies.
SPEAKER 1: It happens.

ROBERT GRADO: All right. Great. And I'm sorry to everyone. These things are coming to you kind of
late. And our lives are so busy here and there's this chaos, and then just trying to get all this done. It's
usually a crunch.
So as you look at this, you'll see, when you get your org chart and you compare them side by side, I tried
to color code some things here to kind of explain each phase through that org chart. But phase one, next
year we would begin by completing-- we have current vacancies. We have four police officer vacancies
and three sergeant vacancies. And so our goal right away is to fill those positions.
And as Mike said, it's not an easy process. We're very picky who we select. And the background process
is very intense, psychological testing. And it takes quite a while to get through all that. And then in
addition, to work towards this model we would add six more police officers and then one more canine
officer. The canine officers, salaries, vehicles, dogs, everything is paid through a TSGP grant.
And then add, the big piece we're missing right away is a crime analyst. And we are also lacking training
and quality assurance person for our 911 operations and an actual program administrator. We would add
those.
So in this first phase, we begin to phase out TSOs as fare inspectors on commuter rail and allocate those
funds to Dave's team to pay for the conductors. I think we talked a little bit about that last week. Does that
kind of make sense, this phase one? Any questions on that? And I'll move on to the next one.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Makes sense.
ROBERT GRADO: One thing I do want to talk really quick, before I move on here. One thing, working
with APTA and the Transit Research Board and other agencies, we've done a lot of talking to folks. And
I've said this over and over. One of the risks I think our agency has and one of the things I'm not really
comfortable with, again, is using security officers as first responders, emergency responders in vehicles
and so forth.
This program, phase one begins to put security officers only at predetermined platforms and at facilities.
And we're going to have to do this. It can phase down, but at first we really have to make sure that's in
place. So as we spoke about last week, if we have an intoxicated person on a train, or a disturbance, we
can quickly resolve those problems and keep our equipment moving.
All right. So phase two. Again, every phase is continuing to build this model and to change things around.
So in phase two, we still need to continue to build our foundation, if you will. To bring these folks on, we
need to have a good foundation of leadership and then have the ability to, once they get here, even
though they've gone through police academies and we require college education and so forth, they have
to have internal training for three months before we can actually let that officer go out and work on their
own. Excuse me, I'm losing my voice.
So we would recruit an additional operations lieutenant. And at this point, we would also hire someone for
our internal affairs and the auditing process. And you can kind of read through that. I'm not going to bore
you with all the details. We would add more police officers. And we'd fix another hole that we have in the
agency. We have no Emergency Manager here. Right now, Caley Escalera, Mike's admin assistant, has
been amazing. And she's learned a lot and been very helpful to Mike and I through our emergency
management program.
And then we fix another, I'll call it, a big hole we have. There's no real field inspector. We would bring on
that field inspector. And then also a records custodian to help us manage our records. We're responding

to 5,000 incidents a month. And right now, all of that is dumped into a records management system, but
there's no real oversight of that. And I think that's another spot we need help in.
Any questions, you guys, on phase two?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Grado?
ROBERT GRADO: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This is Angie. You had said that police officers get hired and then there's an
internal training for three months. Can you just kind of talk a little bit about what that looks like, what
they're getting in their training?
ROBERT GRADO: Sure. So it's actually a requirement. The Colorado Peace Officer Standards and
Training requires that when you bring on a new officer they go through, we call it FTO, field training
operations training. So they actually are assigned. They go through an orientation and then they are
assigned to an officer for a month. And we have a very intense field training manual.
So while they're going through that program, they're checking boxes, writing tickets, field contacts. It could
be a response to a suicide, any type of call that you would get as a police officer. Excuse me, guys. I hate
to do that in your ear. They check off these boxes. And each day, they're evaluated by their field training
officer. And then each month, they have a new field training officer. And at the end, they're shadowed.
The training officer just rides and really doesn't say much. They just let the recruit run the show and they
just sit there and do an evaluation.
At the end, if they don't need remedial training, they're assigned a shift and they're off and running. Did
that explain it, Director?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: Or Chair, I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, no, that's fine. Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: All right. So I'll move to-- if I can get my mouse to work, I'll go to phase three.
All right. At this phase we've really completed our foundation building. We have our supervision in place
and we have our field training officers. We've built up enough infrastructure, at this point, to where now
we can go directly to police academies and recruit right out of those academies. The reason why I would
like to do that is it helps us to get entry level officers. We could train them our way. Transit's a little
different than traditional policing.
And to be perfectly honest with you, it's less expensive to get an entry level officer and train them. And
these next phases, we're also adding a couple dispatchers each time. Because as you expand police
officers, there's more radio traffic and so on and so forth.
MIKE MEADER: Hey, Chief, this is Mike. Could you just expand a little bit on what you just said? Transit
policing is a little different than regular policing. Can you share a little bit with what our thought process is
and how we want to train and develop those officers specific to transit?
ROBERT GRADO: Well, first and foremost, my philosophy, our philosophy is not to hire-- we're not
looking for stats, we're not looking for people out, to go out and be arresting people. I want someone that
has a heart for law enforcement, a servant mentality, if you will, and just to be focused on our community.
Our community is our bus and train operators, our staff, our ridership.
So little different than a city. We're not just-- we are very busy. I mean, we're insanely busy. But
somebody just focusing just on resolving transit issues. That make sense?

MIKE MEADER: It's really more, I think, Bob, that community piece of it, being the customer servants, the
helping people first, always being focused on making sure that they're feeling safe, getting where they
need to go, and whatever help they need in that respect.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah. And then also oversight for the safety aspects and so forth. You know, I might
have mentioned this earlier, my hero in law enforcement is a chief up in Castle Rock, Jack Cauley. And I
love his philosophy. I actually have a son that works for him. And every day they're told, this is your
family. Anybody you contact with, look at them as a family member. It could be your crazy uncle or it
could be somebody who possibly has addiction issues. You take care of everybody like they're your
family. And if you do that, you're going to be successful.
All right. Moving along. Again, this is a long process, you guys, to get through this. It's going to be a fiveyear reorg. Because again, I want to be very selective. We want to get the right people. And we have to
go through all the training phases to make this happen.
So this one, it's a continuation of phase three really. We're going to bring on 16 more transit police
officers. And we think that that's our limit. To effectively train police officers for RTD, we think 16 a year is
about the max that we would want to do. Because we don't want to just push people through this. We
want a quality product at the other end. And we want employees that want to make a career here, not a
stepping stone for another agency.
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff Walker. I have to leave for hopefully only about 10 minutes. But Mr. Grado-ROBERT GRADO: Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: Chief Grado. I just want to say I agree with that wholeheartedly. We want people that are
right for the position and that want to be there for the right reasons. Hopefully, I'll be back in about 10
minutes. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, I'll say, we've been continuously testing for the last couple years. And every
time we open up, we get around 100 applications, and we maybe hired two, or three. We're very, very
picky. I'm looking for people, not necessarily a saint or anything, but we do want a good, clean
background and no history of bad behavior and, again, that servant mindset.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, good. I'm trying to figure out why I can't hear you very well.
ROBERT GRADO: You having trouble, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: There you go. Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: Are we good?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Barbara, can you mute?
ROBERT GRADO: All right. So phase five, again, in this phase I hope that we are-- the plan is to have a
fully utilized conductor program on our trains. And that would be on light rail and commuter rail. The entire
system would be under that program. At this point, our TSOs, the transit security officers, it'd be a much
smaller organization. It'd be more manageable. We're always going to have security officers that are
contracted on our system. But right now, we have over 300 of them. So it's a lot harder for us to provide
that oversight.
And in this final phase, we would just be using these security officers in our facilities and on platforms as
assigned. Again, audited. They would have post orders. And their job would really be to just serve the
public, be that ambassador. We would not want them to physically engage with anybody unless it was an
absolute emergent situation. And I think we would bring that really to where I think it should be. At that

point, we would not be using them as first responders. They would just be there to aid and assist. And
again, this last phase, we're hiring our final 16 entry level officers and we add two more public safety
dispatchers.
That is our plan. I feel like we went through that really quick. So happy to answer questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any Directors have any questions?
ROBERT GRADO: Any thoughts?
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I think this is a great start, Bob. I think that your basic principles are really, really
sound that we want to teach our people that our riders are family. We want to be specific about who we
hire and not just take anybody who comes in the door. So I think all those standards are good and not
anything you should apologize for.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I do have a few questions.
I'll start with a response to having public comment. I appreciate that move. And I'm sure the general public
will appreciate that they have the opportunity to participate in a dialogue that impacts them on a very
personal level. I do have some concerns with this presentation and what you all have showed us. I
haven't had the opportunity, obviously, to look at this in great detail, because I just got it a few moments
ago. But one of the concerns that I have, and I'll bring this back from the conversation we had last week,
as the data that you all had presented us, for the reasoning, I'm guessing, for which you are presenting
this today is because there had been data to show an uptick of violence, assaults, et cetera. And you all
wanted to better. I'm sorry?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, somebody needs to mute. If everybody could mute except for
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. You all wanted to better present a model, a police safety and security
model, that reflected what you all were seeing in the data. And as of yet, we have not received any data
but we are receiving next steps in terms of a plan. And I'm concerned that we are putting forward a plan
without any basis, without any data, without any input from our communities, and, quite frankly, without
any input from our Board.
And so this seems like a staff-led effort. And maybe it's the right answer. I'm not saying that it's not. But it
hasn't been one that's been inclusive of different ideas and different ideologies and particularly the
communities for which feel the harms that come sometimes at the hands of our safety and security
officers. I had hoped for this process to be one where we could share ideas, where we could have
conversations and presentations from other agencies, where we can engage a diverse set of
stakeholders, and then come collectively with the recommendation for next steps to the Board. But this
seems-- it doesn't seem like it makes sense for us to have an ad hoc committee if the ad hoc committee
is just going to bring the presentation to us to see if this makes the most sense but we haven't had any
background or data to support if this makes more sense, nor have we had the opportunity to explore other
models.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis.

ROBERT GRADO: Well, I'll chime in, if I could. I'm happy to meet with you, Director Lewis, or anybody
else who wants to talk through some of that. Again, we work for you all. So if there's anything anybody
wants to do outside of this, I saw this as really just a-- I'm getting feedback from somebody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could everybody check their phones and please mute it, except for Chief
Grado? Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: So yeah, I've been with the agency here for 10 years and three years now as the
Chief. And speaking to other peer agencies, this brings us more in line with our peers. As far as the
enforcement model goes and community outreach, happy to talk through that with others. So I see it as
two different things.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I guess that would probably help me, Chief Grado, when you say you see it as two
different things. Maybe you could spend a bit more time delineating those so that I have a clearer picture
of what you mean by that.
ROBERT GRADO: Well, as far as the outreach portion goes and bringing people in to talk about issues, I
mean, honestly, I would love to hear them. If we're doing something wrong, we absolutely want to fix that.
But what I'm presenting here is just changing our internal. It's a pretty major reorg of our current model.
The concern I have right now is the fact that we have hundreds of contracted security officers out there.
And God bless them, they do a great job. I mean, just this last week we had another life saving event
where two of our TSOs did CPR and administered first aid and Narcan to an individual and literally
resuscitated him. Just this morning, I got an email from the family saying thank you.
So it's not all bad. Boy, somebody needs to mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, somebody does need to mute.
ROBERT GRADO: So my point is, though, is the big picture is what I'm looking at here. I would like to see
us have more internal capabilities, more internal oversight of our model. Because it has just grown so big.
And it's really hard, when you're recruiting, when you have to manage and maintain over 300 security
officers and we have this high standard, it's much harder to meet it. So my goal right now is to shrink that
down, to shrink that model down to a manageable level, still be able to provide the response. And then
when we have a smaller contingency of security officers, we can ask for those higher standards. We
could demand them. Right now, we've had to be creative to fill some of these slots. And that's the part
that makes me nervous.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And I don't necessarily disagree with that, Chief Grado. And I think you'd
probably find that surprising, because I think I've been painted as anti-security and anti-police, and that
couldn't be further for the truth. What I am saying is that the recommendations that you all have put
forward, for me personally, and at least the information that I'm working from, hasn't been backed by any
data. So the data that you all shared with us earlier in the process has all been anecdotal.
And I would imagine that there would be Board members, if we took this to the broader committee, or to
the whole committee, that would probably share those concerns. Because that was a concern that was
shared when I put forward the alternative methods to policing, or to safety and security, was that they felt
that it wasn't based on any data. And that's true for this process, as well, is that we haven't received that.
So the solution might be the right one. But I think the process is probably where I'm pushing back a bit
here. Because it hasn't been a process that has driven us to this recommendation, rather it's a
recommendation that you all are putting forward and saying, trust that this is the right one, although we
haven't been a part of the creation. That's one.

There was also a-- so we talked about peer agencies. There was most recently a presentation that broke
down alternative methods to safety and security. And folks explored things like arts intervention, mental
and social support staff, physical security, free fare transit, accessibility in the built environment,
partnerships with transit workers and laborers, and a Spanish language discussion group, right. We
haven't even talked about language justice in this conversation.
And so I just want to say this again is I'm not saying that this isn't the right answer. I just don't think we've
done the groundwork for me to feel sure that this is the right direction in which we should be moving
forward, because the data that we've received thus far does not support that.
ROBERT GRADO: And I'm happy to give you whatever data you need. I guess I just need specifics. We
did give you high level data. Mike provided that. And this is the tough part for us. We don't have an actual
crime analyst that could give, I think, the data you're looking for. Right now, I have a budget person that
has been giving this. And I did ask him to take a deep dive for you and provide some data. But he
responded back to me and said, we're responding between 4,000 and 5,000 calls for service a month.
He's like, I need to know exactly what you're looking at or I'm going to be delivering a truck of information
to you.
So maybe if you don't mind, we can offline talk about that. I would love your input and I'd love to work
directly with you and make you-- well, not make you-- have you help us and each other be more
comfortable with what you're doing. I am all for bringing people in to help us and having great partners,
just like we are through the homeless outreach portion. What this model is here is just, it's covering the
basics, if you will, the stuff that we're obligated to do. And some of it, we're mandated to do. And it does
address mental health and homeless outreach and community outreach and auditing and things that we
are lacking. If there's anything else, I'm happy to talk with you.
I was thinking, this is-- I'm an open book.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I know that about you.
ROBERT GRADO: This is the stuff that keeps me up at night. I'm driving to work this morning thinking,
how can we go into these neighborhoods, maybe, and sponsor people, get sponsors and bring some of
these individuals, literally put them through a police academy, get them on our police force to help us that
can integrate. I mean, I'm open to whatever.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Me too, Chief Grado.
ROBERT GRADO: As long as-SHONTEL LEWIS: That's the innovation I'm talking about. Yeah, no. And I think that's the Innovation I'm
talking about is because-- well, I'll start with, one, I appreciate that perspective, and I would love to see
more of that. Because I think that's the direction for which we should be traveling. I also think the
information that you-- and to go back to your comment about having a bunch of data, a bus load of data, I
hear that. I get that. But maybe it would just be helpful if you all could give us the data that you all are
making these decisions from. What is the baseline for which you all are working from? What problems are
you trying to solve? What is the question that you're asking yourself?
So we've talked about crimes. We've talked about folks experiencing homelessness. Is that what you're
trying to solve for? Or are we talking about safety for our operators? Are we talking about safety for our
patrons? I guess that's-- and I guess because I'm not-ROBERT GRADO: All of it.

SHONTEL LEWIS: And I believe that to be true. But we haven't laid the foundation to solidify that yet for
us to determine a path forward collectively. And so I would love to do more ideation. But it's hard to do it
without knowing the question that is being asked for which that we are trying to solve.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Hey, Chief you mind if I just-ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, sure, Steve. Jump in.
STEVE MARTINGANO: How's it going? This is Steve Martingano, Deputy Chief. So Shontel-- I'm sorry,
Director Lewis-- that's a great concept about the data. We do about 5,000 calls a month, so about 60,000
calls a year. If that's just a hard line number, we could put that next to agencies like Lakewood, Arvada,
Thornton, and then just see how big their department is compared to how big we need to grow.
That's not what we're about here. There's some data that it's very hard for us to collect. But every day I
get an incident report from Bus Operations, whether it be Tim Lucero or somebody that tells us, hey, this
operator has somebody that's been on this bus twice, they're giving passengers a hard time, they're
giving the operator a hard time. Now is this a real crime in regards to the overall aspects of putting this
into our CAD as an actual criminal incident? It's not. It's a concern of the bus operators.
What do we do? We send two of our officers to that bus stop to see, first of all, if we can contact that
passenger, if it's an everyday occurrence. If it's a one time, just to give the reassurance to our operators
that we're there for them. We'll send our uniform visible presence. Now that data cannot be collected in
regards to what actually did occur and what the resolution was. But as we continue to grow our police
agency, we're sending more and more of our officers to these internal incidents at our operations or our
facilities, or our cleaners, if they're having trouble at nighttime trying to clean a bathroom, we'll send our
officers over there to assist them for their safety and their security.
So those are sometimes hard numbers to achieve. I could try to look into Bus Operations, if they have an
actual incident report, but I'll be happy to send you my email list that I get from Tim Lucero.
Another example, the other day Denver Police Department's having an issue with our bus stop at 49th
and Federal, right in front of the Winchell's. It's not reaching a level for them to send their officers to
continually, but they reached out to me and said, hey, can you help out? We have now been sending our
officers over there, contacting those individuals, asking if they need assistance, whether it be a homeless
outreach, try to explain to them that this bus stop are for patrons. Because the ask is to take away a
shelter. We don't want to take away a shelter for the individuals that are actually using that bus stop
because there's an incident that's caused by the bus stop.
So those are, again, measurables that we can't document in a crime analyst type of situation. But those
are the things that our agency does and that's the stuff that we want to grow. Because I think if we have it
more internally, they have more buy-in for the agency and themselves.
To give an example, too, of our hiring and why it does take a little bit longer and why we have 100 and we
only take 2. We don't do the standard police test where we tell them that Susie got her wallet stolen and
she had $3.00, three singles in there and a five, how much was stolen, so that they understand report
writing. We give them four of our problem areas that we try to establish, try to become safer, for example,
like the bus stop at 10th and Federal. We'll tell them, hey, we're having an issue at 10th and Federal.
What would you do?
And we expect them to give us back an action plan. They have to do a presentation. Some of these
individuals will actually, they'll go into that location, take pictures. If someone puts that much devotion to
try to come to our agency, then we realize that that's the right candidate than the person that just says, I

would tell Denver PD we have an issue there. That's not the person we're looking for. Again, we want
people to find our struggles and we want them to learn about our agency as a whole.
Going back to what the real big difference is is we have our passengers as our community, we have our
bus operators, light rail operators. We have our cleaners. We have the staff here. We have obviously the
Board. So we have a lot more people that we want to assist and make sure that we're devoting our time
to, rather than just 9-1-1- call and we're just being very reactive to policing.
So I don't know if that answers your question totally. But again, the numbers, if we could just give you
5,000 calls and how it went up from October to November, I don't think you're getting a true picture on
that either.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I agree. And that did give me more context, so I appreciate that. I do see that
Lynn's hand is up. And so I will stop. But the buckets that you brought up, being able to say, like here are
the four themes that are coming up most often, I think that would be helpful. Because I think different
communities need different things. One might say remove a bus stop, or might say, remove a shelter. But
other folks might say something completely different. And so I appreciate that information.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. You know, I agree with Director Williams, for starters, that this sounds
like a good plan. And I like hearing what you have to say, all of you, Chief, that you made a couple
comments about going into the neighborhoods and treating people like family. That's certainly the
direction we want to go.
I just wanted to underscore one piece of what Director Lewis was saying, which is sort of going out to the
public, and it's kind of along the lines of what you're saying, going into the neighborhoods. I think that we
still have some work to do. I need to go back and look at the documents and all of that. But at some point,
taking this out so you are getting feedback from the public and from the neighborhoods and hearing the
concerns, and at the same time letting them know why RTD we'll be making these changes and that sort
of thing. I think that it's great to have public comment. And I appreciate that, Chair. But I think even going
out to maybe not many, but to some public meetings could be a helpful thing here as well.
And I still, and I mentioned this last time and I said we could talk some offline, but we'd like to see-- and I
haven't followed up-- we'd like to see where this leaves us with Allied Security and some of our other
contractors at some point. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. You know, I would just like to say a couple of things. In the '90s,
I worked with the Denver Police Department on their community policing model, where the four
neighborhoods in the core inner city got to pick their officers. They're the community police officers. And
then it was a real collaboration between the community and the Denver Police Department.
And I'm wondering if that isn't the model that people are looking at somewhat right now in terms of
partnership and collaboration, going out and talking to community about the plan that you have in place.
Because literally, everything that was brought up earlier this year is being implemented. That's the first
thing, which is beyond commendable. I mean, we've got mental health outreach workers, we've got
homeless outreach workers. We're working in collaboration with key community leaders who work in
these areas and our experts working hand-in-hand with us. So it's not like we're starting from scratch.
But this is an area of what I'd like to call gray. You know, there's the black and white of what happens. But
then there's this whole nucleus of, as you said, there's the bus stop on 49th and Federal. I've been at that

bus stop, sometimes as a single woman. It's scary as hell to go there when there are people sleeping on
the benches and hanging out and drinking. So I understand both sides of that.
And so I think that as Board members, we need to look at this issue in a much regional issue, like
holistically as opposed to singularly. And I don't know what the answer is, but I think that we are on the
right track as an agency in terms of providing services to our community and that our community feels
safe using transit, not just physically but we've got the COVID thing going on. So they want to feel safe
getting in our transit system and know they're going to be safe. So I just wanted to say that. Thank you.
Director Lewis and Director Guissinger, both your hands are still up. Are you done or did you have
additional comments? Oh, OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Lewis?
ROBERT GRADO: Oh, sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Go ahead, Director [AUDIO OUT].
ROBERT GRADO: Well, I was just going to say, I look at-- we're kind of the quality of life police, if you
will. The last thing we do is arrest people and take them to jail. I mean, that's a lose for everybody at that
point. And you know, at the end of the day, we're police and sometimes you need to do that, just to keep
people safe. But that's the thing. And you know, I feel like we've been squeezing water out of a rock, as
they say. You know, we have eight police officers that are actually out in the field working right now. It's
so small and we're killing our officers. They all have a heart for what they're doing and they're busting
their butts on a daily basis.
We need help. What this program does is it gets us internal resources. So when you have that bus
operator that says everyday at 3:00 at whatever street and whatever street, I got this guy that gets on that
is a complete jerk and he causes a disturbance. Right now, we have to, a lot of times, send a contracted
security officer on our behalf. And I don't like that. I do not like that. I don't like relying on a contractor.
God bless them, they're doing a great job. I feel terrible saying that because their heart's in it. But we
don't actually have control. And we're sending out somebody who has no law enforcement authority.
We're putting them in a bad situation.
That's my point. We just, we need to get some help. And again, this is going to be a huge process, fiveyear process to get there. And along the way, I would really enjoy working with Director Lewis or anybody
else who wants to bring anybody to the table and talk to us. I'm happy to do that. We all are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm sorry I had to miss most of it. So some of what I'm going to say, or what I
think I'm going to say, might be repetitive or off the mark. But it seems to me that the plan, the parts of the
plan that I've been able to see, or the concept of putting a plan together, a five-year plan to boost up the
internal sworn officers, is in the right direction. It seems like our security team has recognized internal
pressures, like Chief Grado just stated, external pressures from the community about, this is how we feel
when somebody approaches us like this with this type of equipment, a gun. And it seems like this is a
response that, to have fewer of our people out there, whether contract or internal, with guns on their hips.
So from what I've heard and from what I understand by work on other projects, this seems like it's moving
in the right direction. Like Chief Grado said earlier, it's a quality of life issue. And that can't be quantified.
It's just a feeling that people have. And everybody's going to have a different feeling in any situation.

So I'm good with what I've seen. I think you guys are heading in the right direction. And we'll find out if it
works. Since it's a five-year plan, we'll see if there are any missteps along the way. And I'm sure there will
be room for adjustment. But I'm good with what I've seen and how I've seen it presented. I hope that
helps. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. You know, I'm not going to-- I'll just point out a few things. Because I recognize
when I'm outnumbered.
The first thing that I will say is that the five-year plan really focuses on enforcement. And you mentioned a
few things. You all mentioned serving our folks who are experiencing homelessness. You talked about
mental health piece, the mental health piece, the social pieces, the fare enforcement. And as I'm looking
through the different phases, those things might be missing. So maybe it's just a part of a different plan.
So it's the first one.
And then the second question that I have is if you could tell me what the cost of these recommendations
are per phase.
And then the third question is maybe we can organize conversations that can be had on online or-obviously online during COVID-- on Facebook or other methods in which we can actually get this
information to folks beforehand and give them opportunity to go through this and then provide us with
their feedback.
MIKE MEADER: Hey, Chief. This is Mike. If I can jump in here for just a second. You know, certainly,
Director Lewis-- and Director Walker, I think you mentioned it as well-- this is a very dynamic plan. So we
talk about the mental health conditions. We're adding three more because we've seen the benefit of
having one. We're going to bring those folks in and we're going to see how best to deploy them and
evaluate things along the way. And we're going to be sharing information with everybody here on this
team, with everyone on the Board about how those things are going and continue to build based upon the
results that we see.
That's really the key piece. With anything, it's that monitoring and reviewing and then helping to continue
to develop the plan. You've heard this plan, do, check, act cycle, right, with management systems. And
this falls right into the same thing. It's about the safety and security of our employees. And we're going to
be evaluating this along the way. We might find after phase two that, nah, we were just kind of missing
the boat here and we're going to move over in this direction a little bit more.
So this is kind of, again, it's that vision. We take really what our job is, what my job is is to look at the
values and the objectives of this organization and weigh the risk of the things we do to achieving those
objectives. And I know that's kind of maybe sounds like technical mumbo jumbo. But the bottom line is,
are we doing what we say we're going to be doing in the most efficient, best, continuously improving way.
And the goal here is to make sure that we keep people safe and secure. Because if they don't feel that
way, they don't ride transit. And we exist to move people on transit. So that's why we're doing it.
An example might be, as I just said, BART-- and I know that in the presentation, we talked about BART.
And BART created these transit ambassadors. That is fantastic. It's a great idea. They posted them at a
couple of stations that are very, very busy. And they decided they're going to expand them to more. But
what they found was these ambassadors are running into some dangerous situations. So the
ambassadors now do not go out without an armed security, or actually it's an armed police officer, with

them, in that proximity. Because they found that the idea of having someone just address the situation
really needed some law enforcement people there.
So what they're doing is now they're kind of shifting now, hiring a few more police officers, hiring a few
more transit ambassadors that they had so that they can make sure they provide that security for the
customer, but also for the employee. So we're going to be looking at those things too and shifting and
moving and bringing these kinds of things to you, to the Board, sharing them with you as we grow and we
learn more about this model that we're projecting here.
The other thing is, as an elected and representative of our District, please solicit feedback. Please bring
that feedback to us. We receive very, very little feedback from the community, positive or negative, from a
safety or security standpoint. But it's not good to assume because we don't hear anything that we can't
get better. You know, one of the things that I believe is one of the biggest contributors to failure is
success. It's complacency. It's saying, yeah, we're doing this, we're not hearing anything, so everything's
good. I've heard a past General Manager say, we don't need to invest in more safety, we haven't killed
anyone in the last few years. That's not the attitude we take. We're going to continually figure out what we
can do to get better. And we need that feedback. So please, get your constituents to bring that feedback
to us via emails, via phone calls, whatever way possible so that we can continue to build the right
organization here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, anything else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, that's it. I do have to jump off. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams. Director Williams, you're still muted.
KATE WILLIAMS: I turned it off. Now are you getting me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can. Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm technologically challenged today. I understand that Director Lewis has been
painted as anti-security and anti-safety. And I understand that she works with the homeless community. I
work with the older adult community and with people with disabilities. And I want us to not take this entire
conversation to the homeless community or to those people who are having issues with mental health.
There are a lot of riders, older adults, people who are transit dependent, essential workers, who deserve
to be represented in this conversation as well. And the primary thing that I hear in my day job is that
people want more security, that they want to feel safer on our system.
So I just want to make sure that we don't get on a one track mind here and that we, in fact, look at our
ridership overall and make sure that we are getting feedback from all of the groups who use our services.
Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I rode the N Line Sunday and got to have about a half hour conversation with
one of our ambassadors on that. Like Mr Meader said-- I think it was Mr. Meader-- said a little while ago
that, I think it was Muni or BART, BART I think it was, also have ambassadors, but they were put in
situations or they approached situations where they kind of felt vulnerable because they didn't have any
protection. That was the story I got, that was the same story I got from the person I spoke with on the N
Line Sunday. He felt that he could talk his way out of most situations, de-escalate almost anything, but
there was sometimes when he wishes he had a little something more.

So that statement that you made is really appreciated, that it's not just RTD, it's pretty much an industrywide concern. Although he did feel not having a side arm was beneficial in almost every situation.
Also, the other thing that I noticed is that we talk about what the officers do as far as, I'll say, negative
impact. So like number of arrests, number of calls to homeless. Because I work downtown, most of what I
see the officers doing is giving people directions. And we don't have a category for that. I wouldn't ask any
officer to write down every time they say hi to somebody or point to where some restaurant is. But that's a
big chunk of what they do also, from what I've seen when I'm walking through Union Station or just
around any of our facilities.
I've got to get going to another meeting. Unfortunately, that's the drawback of having a day job. But once
again, thanks for the effort. Looking forward to next week. And let me know if you have any questions of
me and I'll certainly reach out to you all. Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: Director Walker, before you jump off-- oh, go ahead.
JEFF WALKER: No, no, no, you, please.
ROBERT GRADO: Well, I was just going to make a comment before you jump off. And I think, I don't
know if we lost Director Lewis, but I just want to make it clear that we're not expanding with this. This is
we're reallocating funds. So when we hire a police officer, we are eliminating a security position, or more
than one, in some cases. This is not an expansion. It's just letting us get more control and more capability
to service our community. So it's not an expansion.
JEFF WALKER: Right. Yeah. And that's something I've been learning from this work I'm doing on the
Reimagine Denver Police Task Force is that we don't necessarily need to shrink or expand, just definitely
at this point just reallocate the services. Because the need is still out there. The need of contact isn't
going to go away.
ROBERT GRADO: Absolutely. Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: But how we approach that situation is what's important. And having people who are
trained, like the office-- or the ambassador I talked with Sunday, he called it verbal jujitsu, and that might
sound aggressive but it's really just de-escalating the situation and being able to have that person unload
whatever is bothering him or her that day at that time. And it looks like that's where we're heading.
I'm sorry. I interrupted you, Chief.
ROBERT GRADO: No. I was just going to say, and also the investment we're making here in Denver into
this model, or our current model, it's so much lower. We invest less here than most of our peer agencies I
was talking with Miami this week. They actually called us. And so I said, hey, since I got you on the
phone, I learned they're investing $25 million a year for 22 platforms. And I'm like, wow, we're 2,400
square miles and we're investing-- well, before the cut back, we were investing $33 million, now we're $27
million for this entire operation, which is-- and the reason why we're getting it at such an affordable cost is
because we're using a lot of contractors and security officers.
So it's a trade-off. So in the future, that may have to change. But right now the plan is to use our current
budget, understanding the situation we're in, and to not expand but to just recreate with more ability to
serve our community. That's the bottom line.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Yeah. And that's what I see. And that's what I support. I've got to go to my day job.
Thank you all. And like I said, don't hesitate to reach out if you need me for anything. Have a good one.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, I would like to just say a couple things. And the first one is that
what we're really dealing with is really a systemic issue for the entire community, and we're just one small
piece of it. We are a transit agency. We move people from point A to point B. And it seems to me that we
need to be having a community conversation with everybody at the table to talk about how do we deal
with homeless issues, as a community, how are we dealing with mental health issues, and we are at the
table saying, we're providing bus service and rail service and here are the issues we're dealing with.
But I think this is not an RTD issue. This is a community issue. And I'd like to just state that for the record.
Because for some reason, transit is always the nucleus of the problem. And it is not. We're just
experiencing it like everyone else. And so I would like to take this conversation-- I know Denver City
Council has a committee. I know Denver Health has a committee. I think we need to maybe even take it
to the Metro Mayors Caucus to start addressing some of these systemic issues and how we work
together as a governing group to make sure that maybe there's funding or resources available, but that
we're all in this together. And it's not going to get any better. And if we work in silos, it's not going to get
any better.
So that's kind of where I'm going with this. I did work in community policing. I worked for the Denver
Victims Center for victims of crime. And I think that's the missing component is that we need to start
talking to each other to help each other how to figure this out.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. This is Debra Johnson. I just wanted to actually reiterate what you just outlined,
having had experience working in various metropolitan areas, and with this being my seventh transit
agency, thinking back to what you said, and having Mr. Meader reflect on the BART experience, I do
recall basically working in tandem with our own police department at BART, SFPD, working with the city
and county of San Francisco and other jurisdictions, whereby we had a collective task force, due to the
fact that there are a myriad of different problems, as we look at the homelessness in and around the city
and county of San Francisco, and collectively coming together to more or less bring forth our resources,
but more specifically do some ideation, as you heard Director Lewis talk about.
Because basically, we are in the business of moving people. We are the interwoven fabric of any
community. And whatever issues are plaguing a jurisdiction are going to basically fall into transit. If there's
heavy crime in a certain area, it doesn't alleviate that in the sense of it not carrying over in the transit
system. So we holistically need to broach that. And when you think about the prevalent aspect of mental
health issues that plague us as a country, considering that monies have been eliminated from various
county and state budgets to help those individuals, in turn, they seek refuge in our systems.
So I think what you raised, it needs to be done collectively. Because we cannot do this by ourselves.
We're not going to have a solution if, in fact we're taking the charge and not bringing others to the table.
So I just wanted to speak up and support that statement in which you made, because having experienced
that firsthand in DC, as well, it's something that is just close to my heart. Because you know, as I said, I'm
a servant leader and recognizing that being homeless is not a crime. However, we do have to balance the
needs of all of our customers. So thank you for the opportunity to share that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am.
Chief, I'm going to turn it back over to you. Oh, wait a minute. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I agree with both what you said, Chair, and what Debra said. I'm just trying
to understand, are you recommending that we pull together sort of a broader task force on this topic
beyond what we're doing now? Are we looking at sort of a community task force? Is that what you're
recommending?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, Director, that we need to have a conversation about that. If there
is one that is happening in the community, can we join in? I don't know that we need to lead the charge. I
just would like to ask if we could be invited to sit in those meetings to be part of the discussion I think is
really important.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do we know if there is a meeting, a group like that or anything?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know. But I'm-- go ahead, Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair? Yeah. I can tell you there are. And I would agree with what you just said,
Madam Chair, is that we should make sure we're engaged. These conversations are happening. But the
problem is they're happening in vacuums, from my perspective. You know, every single week I have
conversations with all of the departments of public health. I have discussions with the county,
surrounding, and the city's emergency operations center, which really is kind of at the heart of
coordinating all of these things that are happening and all of the people that are being affected.
And just yesterday, I had a conversation with the Denver folks, and we talked about how we need to
engage more in these conversations that are happening. There were a number of people on there said,
yeah, we're talking about that, oh, yeah, we're talking about that. They're going to work on bringing us
together more to talk about all of these things that are affecting us. Homelessness certainly is one of
them. About the testing and the vaccine and what's to come in that regard, all of those things. So they are
happening.
I did ask for some more information on some of these meetings and discussions that are taking place and
I'm awaiting some response. And I'll certainly let you know. But I think that's a fantastic idea. I don't think
it's something we need to create. They're already happening. We just need to be a part of it. Because as
they mentioned yesterday, from their perspective, RTD is at the heart of all this stuff. They know that it's
our purpose to move people. That's our main purpose. But we impact and affect so many people's lives in
different ways that we absolutely need to be at the table.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I agree. I agree that I think that it's great. And I think more publicly at the
table is important, and really reaching out. Right now, there's just a lot of concerns around these topics,
writ large, not just RTD. So I think bringing ourselves to the conversation and bringing the public to our
conversations are both real important. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Agreed.
ROBERT GRADO: So if you guys-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry.
ROBERT GRADO: Oh, no, I didn't-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. I attended the Spark meeting on safety and security
this past week. Myself and Kimberly Ford were two RTD employees that were there. And I can tell you
that the conversation was much like we're having today. The meeting was recorded. And I have asked for
the link to that recording so I could get it to this group, so that we can listen to it and see that other groups

are heading down the same path, much as what we have been talking about over the last number of
minutes.
And they were thrilled that I was there. And I was just there as an observer. And I wound up doing quite a
bit of participation, especially in one of the breakout groups. So I think it is important that we know what
else is going on in the community and that we make sure that we have RTD staff, whoever it happens to
be, in front of those folks and bring back a paragraph or a short conversation of any new ideas that crop
up that we can look at in our quest for this change.
So I just wanted to let you know that that is already happening a little bit. But I think that Mike, with a lot of
the meetings and folks that you're involved with, if you can share what they are, then I think we can get
more folks to participate and bring that back to this group.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Barbara, what Is Spark?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Let me look it up. It's a community outreach group. It's national, but there's a
Denver chapter. And I don't know how I received this invite. But Bob Grado and I talked about it, and he
wasn't able to attend but I was.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It came from Mile High Connects, I think, Barbara, at least for me. And I was sorry
to miss it. But I appreciate you getting that recording. I would like to watch that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Director Guissinger, does Mile High Connects convene it or are they just
a participant in it?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Barbara might know better than I do. But my sense was-BARBARA MCMANUS: I think they're a participant.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. And they were just sending out the invitation. I thought it went to all the RTD
Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't think I've seen it. Yeah. OK. So, Chief.
ROBERT GRADO: I know we're getting close to the end here. So just a couple comments.
One, I just want to say, again, this model, everything else we're talking about is great add-ons. I just want
people, I want you all to focus that this model is to serve the agency needs we have right now. And I
couldn't agree more with Ms. Johnson. I always say crime's inherent to the neighborhood. As our bus or
train's rolling, the crime rate's changing. It depends on what neighborhood that vehicle's in.
And my argument to chiefs has been that when a crime occurs, sometimes they just want to say, hey,
that's your vehicle. And my response is, well, that's our vehicle that is in your city. So we do ask for that
partnership with these agencies. They're handling all the major crime stuff for us. We've got great
partners, 40-plus cities, 8 counties. And Steve and I do, we participate, I mean, Metro Chiefs, the South
Area Commanders Association. We have all these associations locally that we do participate with. We'd
love to do more. It's just having the bandwidth to do that and the personnel, kind of what we're talking
about here.
And then on a national level, the PAG, the peer advisory. It's through APTA, all the metro chiefs from
across the nation. So we've got great partnerships. I think we're making a lot of progress locally with the
harm reduction and Denver Rescue Mission and all these things, and working with Fred Werther and
looking at routes to get people to services instead of just having-- we want options for our officers.
But I guess I want to wrap up by saying, please keep in mind that this reorg is going to be a process.
What we're looking for is permission to work this direction. And it's a live document. There's going to be

changes. But I really feel like we need to get more internal horsepower to help our people. And then the
rest of it, we can do separately.
So I'll get off my soapbox. I think I've probably said enough.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, before we close, I would just like to say thank you to all of you for the
information that you've given all of us. For me, what I'm taking away is that I think this is a great plan that
you have in place and we can build on it.
The second thing is that we are unique in the sense that we roll through 40 cities in 8 counties. And so it's
fluid. It changes constantly. And that makes us very, very unique. And I think one of the biggest issues
that I'm seeing is the lack of communication with community and the municipalities. It's very clear to me
that maybe the mayors and the commissioners or the city council people don't-- they're not connecting us
with that component of it and that we really need to do some education of each other as we move
forward.
I think these issues are not going to go away. I think they're just going to escalate, especially when you
throw in gentrification and the lack of affordable housing. And it's just kind of snowballing. So I would like
to respectfully ask that maybe at the next meeting we can start, maybe we have a document showing all
the community groups that are currently meeting and have a conversation about how do we become
more involved, as a Board, as a staff, and take a leadership role in terms of saying, we're at the table and
here's how RTD is functioning. I think we need to just talk to each other.
So that's the one thing I'd like to just say in that. I'm going to close. So I'm going to call on the Board
members to see if they have any other closing comments. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nope. I think I'm done. Thank you very much for a good meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams. [TRAFFIC NOISE] She must be driving.
All right. I'm going to go through. Marisela, do you have any comments?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: No, thank you, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then I think everybody else spoke. Mr. Jensen, any comments from
you, sir?
DAVE JENSEN: No comments, other than just appreciate the conversation and being a part of it and
learning a lot. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. All right. Well, with that, I'm going to conclude the meeting
at 9:25. Everybody have a great day, and Happy Veterans Day.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you. Take care.
ROBERT GRADO: Thanks, everybody. Appreciate your time.
SPEAKER 2: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

