08-04-2020
RTD Communications and
Government Relations Committee
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good evening. My name is Lynn Guissinger. This is the Communication
and Government Relations Committee. Communication and Government Relations Committee
will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 on Tuesday, August 4, PM MDT. I ask
everyone to please mute your phones and set your rings to silent.
Please note that, for now, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held
remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this time, meetings will be
primarily audio recorded. The recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will
be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the
bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceeding, please announce your name and wait for me to call on you before proceeding
to speak. At the appropriate time during our discussion and voting afterwards-- well, actually, I
don't think I will call on each Director in turn. I think for our discussion tonight we have to see if
anybody has anything to say. We have a single recommended action.
Since this is the first committee meeting of the evening, we give a safety briefing. At RTD, safety
is our core value. With an uptick in COVID-19 cases here and elsewhere, I'll just remind you of
the safety practices to frequently and thoroughly wash your hands, monitor your health and the
health of those close to you, being particularly alert to the prevalent symptoms of COVID-19 of
fever, coughing, and shortness of breath, minimize time in poorly ventilated indoor public areas,
especially with a large number of people, and, as is the law now, wear a mask at all times in public
places, whether inside or outside, when you're unable to maintain physical distance of at least six
feet.
We have one recommended action tonight, the Citizen Advisory Committee appointments. It's
recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee and the Nominating
Committee of the RTD Citizens Advisory that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint two members
of the committee to an additional three-year term, appoint three new members to the committee to
three-year terms, appoint one new member to the committee to a two-year term, and appoint one
new member to a one-year term.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals. Goal number five,
effective communications and community outreach.
Do I have a motion?

JUDY LUBOW: Yes, Lubow.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heared Lubow moving and Tisdale second.
At this time, I will ask Assistant General Manager Tonilas if you have anything to say.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair, thank you very much and good evening to everyone.
As you all know, the Citizens Advisory Committee is one of the great opportunities we have
available here at RTD to listen to the people and to utilize representatives from across our district
to advise the RTD Board and staff on matters related to our business of moving people. And so
this is a very selfless act of the people who serve on the committee.
In total, we have 17 members. And they do serve different terms, one-, two-, and three-year terms.
And so this evening we do ask for your support for these seven appointments that will bring us
back up to the CAC's full membership of 17 people.
And Madam Chair, I'm happy to answer any questions that the Board may have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I will just add that-- I'll just read the names. I think it's an impressive
group of people. Two of them are returning for a second term, Ben Bryan and Catherine Sanders.
And the others that are new to the Board, Travis Duea-- if I'm pronouncing that right-- Tony
Jackson, Andrea Suhaka, Joan Lyons, and Danny Fisher. We do appreciate you working on the
CAC. It's very helpful.
Directors, do we have any questions or comments?
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I just want to say that I've had the privilege of being on the Selection Committee
for all the time that I've been Chair of the Planning and Capital Programs and FasTracks
Committee. Anyway, the people that apply are terrific. And we have a very good group of
candidates who we are asking that you folks approve. It's a privilege to work with them. Thank
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Lubow. Anyone else have something to add?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Madam.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would just like to echo what Director Lubow has shared with
everybody. There was such an outstanding group of people who applied. And the group that was
selected, it was a really, really difficult decision, but they really bring tremendous background and
diversity to the group.
So I think this is going to be great for all of us. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'll note that there was a total of 35 applications. Thank you all
for applying. And try again in the future if you didn't get there. It was a great group.
Now I'm going to ask for the vote. I'm not sure we need to go in alphabetical order. Are there any
no votes?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, no.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis? A no vote. OK. Any others? All right. So hmm, I'm not
sure, I guess I'm not sure who all is here. Maybe I should run through it.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm a yes. Director Lewis is no. Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams. Director Williams. Not here. And Chair RiveraMalpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Great. That is all of the recommended actions we have for tonight.
We have several updates. And I will go back to Pauletta Tonilas for the first one, the
communications update.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair, thank you very much, and Board members.
I will make this quick. There was a PowerPoint in your packet that spells out much of what the
Communications Department has been achieving over the past couple of months. So I do not intend
on going through slide by slide, but there are a few high points that I would like to mention.
Our Let's Get Our Region Moving Again communications effort, that's part of the agency's
recovery effort from COVID-19, was very well-received, especially by colleagues of ours across
the industry. We have had numerous requests from transit colleagues in the industry on how we
did what we did. And we were one of the first that really jumped out to do the online survey that
we did in early May that was intended to then help inform the agency's recovery efforts and our
communications campaign, which we then, of course, named Let's Get Our Region Moving Again.
I had the opportunity to be on several webinars throughout COVID and had an opportunity to share
how we did this campaign. And one of the things that I did in an APTA webinar was share some
COVID lessons learned that our Communications team had. And really, here are the key high
points that I shared with them at the end, was keeping the Board members and employees informed
regularly.

As you know, we were, through the heart of COVID, we were sending the Board and emails to the
employees daily because of the changing nature of what was happening, getting out ahead of
issues, over communicating and repeating our messages, telling our stories, localizing national
stories, which we did that was well received.
There was a couple of stories few months back that talked about how riding transit is actually much
safer than people think. And there is a continuing growing body of research that shows that actually
riding transit is much safer than what many people think and what some folks were saying early
on in COVID, which ended up not being true, trying to discourage people to ride transit. So we
localized that story and did a story on our News Stop, our online newsroom. And I had contacts
from colleagues across the nation, actually, that, wow, that was really interesting how you turned
that around and made it a local story by interviewing a local health professional.
Also, other lessons learned, helping the public understand their role in safety. As you know, we
have been very bold about asking our riders and the public to be our partners in safety. They have
a role with that and they need to hold themselves accountable as much as we do, showing
compassion, right?
This whole COVID experience has come without a manual of how to deal with it, but it's all about
people. And we have had to really think about the people we serve, our employees, our staff, all
of us trying to get through this and showing that compassion. And then just do it. Communicate
with the best available information that we have, knowing that we're going to have to change that
and evolve and the messaging will change. And that is what we have been committed to doing.
A couple of other things I will just point out is our mask up campaign is in motion. That is largely
a social media effort. Some of the Board members and senior leadership have participated in that
by sending short, selfie-style videos that we have been posting on social media. It is not too late to
share that, if you would like. We will now be rolling out some photos of employees and riders, as
they send those to us, and ask people to mask up.
We also, one of our messages is encouraging people to exit the buses through the rear door. And
that's another layer of protection. So that's also what we've been rolling into our messaging.
What we continue to hear as the most common comments from our customers is that people are,
some people aren't wearing masks and also the overcrowding and being passed up because our
vehicles are reaching those capacity limits that we have. But we continue to drive the point home
that we have additional buses staged to do supplemental trips. And then, of course, people would
love to see more frequency and they would love to see us add more service back.
We are going to be submitting some refunds for some of our pass programs, our college and
university pass programs and some of our EcoPass programs, because we had fare suspension, of
course, and then many people being at home and colleges not being in session. So we'll continue
to work with our partners on our pass programs.
On our News Stop, if you didn't see it, we did a series of stories to celebrate the 30th anniversary
of ADA. And as you all know, RTD is one of the nation's leaders and many of the efforts that we

have put forth to serve our persons with disabilities who ride transit. And so if you haven't noticed
those or seen those, you might check those out. We have a series of unique stories where this is an
opportunity for us to tell our stories that don't always get told. And that's, of course, on our News
Stop, which is on our website.
The N Line, big deal for all of us, we're shooting towards opening the N Line, of course, as you
know, September 21. And the planning for this has been interesting because we actually have a
few tandem plans in motion for how we're going to open the N Line. September 21 will be a big
day. We would very much like to hold a smaller scale grand opening ceremony in person. That is
one plan that we have in motion. However, COVID is continuing to dictate how we do a lot of
things.
So we have in tandem another plan in case we have to pursue the grand opening virtually. We have
some ideas of how we can do that and engage people. But it will, of course, be livestreamed no
matter what. And we will keep the Board apprised as we march forward with our plans for the N
Line opening.
As you know, we also are planning for a week of free rides just on the N Line. We'll be promoting
that. And then, of course, how the promotional fare pilot program will work, as that starts
September 28. So again, we will keep the Board informed.
And then of course, we'll support the Board and senior leadership on several other major initiatives
going on, including the CEO search, so that we can keep our employees and the public informed
and engaged. We have a web page dedicated to the search, and we will be adding information as
it becomes available and then making the presentations that are taped by the three finalists
available on our website, in addition to an online survey that people can take to provide input.
And then, of course, our continuing, evolving situation of our financial matters and Reimagine
RTD as we march forward with our System Optimization Plan.
And Madam Chair, I am happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Pauletta. That's great.
I will run through the Directors here and see if there are questions or comments. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions or comments. Good report. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions or comments. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the report, Pauletta. You guys are employing some creative
strategies and I appreciate that.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No. Thanks, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Pauletta, thank you for the report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Nothing. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh. I'm sorry. I did have one question. And I'm just going to pull down to
where I made a note regarding the call center.
What I am wondering is with the amount of staffing that we have in the call center and the amount
of calls that we're taking, so what the document says is we've got 41 customer care employees
working from home, either part-time or full-time, and 45 at RTD facilities. And it says call volumes
up slightly to 400 to 500 calls average on weekdays, since the fare collection resumed. So it sounds
like an increase.
When I look at the amount of employees, which is getting close to 90 to 100 of them, or let's say
90, it seems like that's a really low call volume. Is there any plans to maybe modify the amount of
staffing with a low call volume?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, Director Menten. Thank you very much. This is Paulette Tonilas,
Assistant General Manager of Communications.
Thank you. That's a great question. We have 86 people in our Customer Care Division. Many of
them are Telephone Information Center agents. Others work in our sales outlets and also assist us
with our rider alerts and our social media communications as it relates to service impacts.
That number is down from where it was even a year ago. And we are very acutely tuned in to how
we are all trying to modify staffing and look at what are the appropriate staffing levels to support
our service and our mission moving forward.

There is a natural attrition of people who typically work in customer service centers, customer care
centers, as we call it. And we will continue to see that. The call volume is up now. It was lower
than this during the heart of COVID. And I think that is to be expected. But this and other areas of
the Communications Department are what we have strategized about so that we can put forth an
efficient and cost effective program moving forward.
In the Communications Department, most of our budget is people. It's the people resources that
get the work done. And we are really a self, well-oiled machine. We do not utilize outside
advertising agencies and such. And so I think our budget is like 1.4% of the overall agency budget.
And yet we have many people in Customer Care because of how we need to provide customer
service.
But in answer to your question, in a more brief sense, Director Menten, yes, we are looking at this
and will continue to do so.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Nothing for me at this time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do just want to point out that I was
really very impressed by the quality of the written report that Ms. Tonilas provided. So I thank you
for that. And that's all, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Nothing for me. Thank you for the report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm struck by a number of the numbers in this
report, Pauletta. It looks like first quarter you may have fielded as many as three media calls a day,
if I do the math correctly, on work days. That's a lot of inquiries. And I'm sure that that pace will
continue with all the activities that we're involved with and all the newsworthy items generated by
the agency.
Really appreciate the report, and keep up the good work. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, sir.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to thank Ms. Tonilas
and her team for the report.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
We have several updates from our public relations teams, CRL Associates, our local update, our
state update from Brandeberry-McKenna, and our federal update from Squire Patton Boggs. I think
we'll go through all of those. You had their reports in your packet. So they've just been asked to
give any update basically that should be added to their report in the last couple of weeks.
And at the end of that, I'll see if people have questions, after we've gone through all three.
CRL Associates. Is that you, Roger Sherman?
ROGER SHERMAN: That is me. Thank you.
Two items that are in addition, just the update on Board candidate elections. Of the 16 that
submitted signatures so far, three have been certified for the ballot. Interestingly, all three are from
District A. So they were quick in to get things in, and now they are-- oh, no, I'm sorry, two out of
District A and one out of District B. And we expect to start seeing some more announcements
here, hopefully tomorrow, as early as tomorrow.
The other thing I just wanted to mention was a little, that started the phones ringing yesterday, was
a small encampment on RTD property near 40th and Colorado. We started getting calls from
Denver. And I think certainly the agency did, in response to that, I had a chance to talk to the Chair
and Mike Meader and Pauletta and just to keep them in the loop of what we were hearing out there.
I think maybe they'll talk about it, maybe they won't, later on the meeting.
But that's the only other two. And I wanted to also thank Directors Malpiede and Lubow and Paul
Ballard and Bill Van Meter for the work they did on the CAC Nominating Committee. We did
have 33, 35 applicants, 2 were out of District, but 33 really qualified folks to go through as they
made their determination. So thank you for your time on that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great Thank you. Brandeberry-McKenna. Is that you, Jenifer
Brandeberry?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Yes, this is Jenifer. So nothing too much to add, other than the
Oversight Committee that was appointed since we last talked will be meeting Monday at 8:30 to
10:30 at DRCOG. Our team has had a handful of conversations with leadership as well as the
Transportation Committee members. I think they were very appreciative of Director Malpiede's
and Guissinger's input and support of the Oversight Committee.

And I would say folks both in the House and the Senate feel like the committee is very talented
and is very diverse. And I didn't hear any complaints about who was actually appointed. So the
agenda for that meeting will be released tomorrow and we'll be happy to send that around.
The only other thing I would add is our team has been busy in July meeting with all the candidates.
And I think we've actually met either in person or Zoom. Our team has everyone that's actually
filed to run for state legislative office. It's been a pretty busy month on that front. The good news
is unlike two years ago, where the incoming class was really large, I think this next cycle there'll
be less new people, just given the races that are up.
And I think we're getting a little bit of a handle on who of these candidates has interest in
Transportation Committee, and hopefully they will have met their Board Director and senior staff
before they get sworn in and start work next session.
And so COVID is an interesting time. But luckily, given the state order and most of the metro
areas' orders, we can meet in person outside. And I think those meetings have gone very well with
our team.
So that's all I have to report. Oh, finally, state initiatives and referendums were due, the signatures
were due into the Secretary of State's office yesterday. We will have a full report of what's made
the ballot, what's left, and what dates the Secretary has to certify the various petition signatures in
order to actually appear on the ballot.
So look for that. But we've been tracking that at our office as well. And again, happy to answer
any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. We'll take questions after our next one. I would just add
that Director Whitmore and I will be the ex-officio members on the Accountability Committee. I
assume that the agenda and all will be posted on our website and on the DRCOG website. They're
public meetings. And thanks so much to Brandeberry-McKenna for helping guide us through that
process.
Federal update, Squire Patton Boggs. Is Patty Doersch here?
MIKE DINO: Mike Dino is on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ah, great, Mike.
MIKE DINO: Yeah, I will just-- I think you have a report. The only thing that I think is not on the
report is that we are waiting for the White House and US Senate today seemed to move a little bit,
along with what the US House is doing, to try to reach a compromise on the next relief package.
And it's probably not expected to happen this week. We're probably looking at sometime next
week where they'll have something introduced and try to get the votes for.

I think people know that the political conventions start the second half of the month, with the
Democrats on August 17 and the Republicans a week later. So I do think they want to get a relief
package wrapped up and put into play before they head off to the conventions.
And I was on a call last week with Senator Gardner. Senator Gardner said he couldn't imagine the
next relief package would not have money in there for state and local governments. But I know
transit agencies and stuff are lobbying very heavily to make sure there's more money in there for
transit, though that hadn't seemed to surface yet as a possibility. So we'll continue to keep an eye
on that.
And I'm sorry, I didn't introduce myself. But it's Mike Dino, the Denver Squire Patton Boggs
office. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you, Mike.
Roger Sherman just texted me that I think Patty's on. Did she have anything to add? Or you covered
it very well.
PATTY DOERSCH: Could I just add one point that I think is important? It's not specifically
focused on transit. But Senator Cory Gardner had a huge victory today in Trump signed today the
Great American Outdoors Act. This was a bill where Trump went from not zeroing out, but 97%
cut in his budget for federal land conservation funding. But this is a bill that he's advancing for
Cory Gardner to keep him in the Senate. So it's a huge win, enormous bipartisan, bicameral
support. So it's a win for Gardner today.
And then just one point I want to keep on everyone's radar screen is the House did pass all 10-well, 10 of its 12 appropriations bills, including the Transportation HUD bill, which, of course,
includes our [INAUDIBLE] CRP fix, and we're hopeful it will get done, but it won't happen
anytime soon. It's probably going to happen in December after the elections. Trump has threatened
to veto this bill. One of the many reasons why is because there's a mask mandate for transportation
workers. He says that shouldn't be mandated at the federal level.
But expect a CR, which is a short-term funding package, to be passed probably-- nothing happens
till the 11th hour. Expect it to be passed around September 30. So we're in the Appropriations bill,
but we're not going to get that bill till December.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. That's Patty Doersch, just for the record.
And I guess I would say that if we have a possibility of getting our CRP in December, that sounds
very soon. It doesn't sound for a while. So thanks for all your work on that. I know that at the
federal level we've been keeping everybody busy.
Let's go through real quick and see if we have questions. Maybe we'll do this backwards. Director
Williams. I don't think she's here. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Sorry. Just one question for Jenifer. And by the way, it's great to hear your
voice. The Accountability meeting, is that intended to be a live meeting at DRCOG, or virtual? It
was my understanding it would be virtual. But I'm not clear now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can answer that. I think that it's going to be virtual. Yeah.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. All right. Thank you, Madam Chair. That is all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't know if you had anything to add, Jenifer. But I knew the answer.
Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Nothing for me. Thank you for the reports.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I just wanted to follow up on the comments that Patty
Doersch and Mike Dino raised relative to FAST Act reauthorization as well. And clearly. That's
something that has been of great importance to AFTA. We had a meeting of the AFTA Legislative
Committee last week and went through that and essentially heard what Patty has shared now with
the full Board. So I won't burden you further with that. But I want to thank her for that report.
Thank you, Madam.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I do not have anything at this time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. Thank you all for your reports.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: One question for-- Roger, you mentioned 40th and Colorado. It's actually in
my district, and I was wondering if you could expand on that.
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah. I mean there was a group of tents, whether it was in a homeless
encampment or not, I'm not sure, that sprouted up next to the Park Hill golf course. They, I assume,
were contacted by Denver, or contacted Denver. It was determined that was RTD property. And
so we got a call about that just to alert us. And I think they had also reached Director Malpiede.
But that is the extent of our engagement was to make sure that there was communications going
on between RTD and the city on that item.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis-SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So I received an email about this. So it's helpful when things are in our
district for folks to inform us of the things that are going on in our districts. And so the reason that
I speak this because I got an email about this and so I'd like to be able to respond, but I wasn't
aware of the specifics. And so maybe you can send me an email, Roger, with the specifics so that
I might respond to my constituent.
ROGER SHERMAN: Sure. I think either I or Mike Meader, I mean, we'll figure out the right
person to get you an update.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Thank you so much.
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry about that. No, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all right. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Patty Doersch or Mike Dino, could you refresh us about whether or not
RTD is included in the Dem passed package for additional stimulus? I recall we were kind of on
the cusp and there was some work on that. Would we be set to get any if the Dems can get their
package moved through the Senate?
PATTY DOERSCH: [AUDIO OUT]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PATTY DOERSCH: --inserted into-- I'm sorry, can it not be heard?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Now we can hear you.
SHELLEY COOK: --first part, it was mumbled. It was jumbled.
PATTY DOERSCH: OK, sorry. We're not eligible to receive funding under the very narrow
definition of an agency in the Heroes Act, which was the mid-May bill passed by the House. But
working directly with New York MTA, as we mentioned doing before, we've got them to basically
disown that proposal. They're not behind that anymore. They, and all the transit industry and AFTA
and transit unions, have all united around this $32 billion proposal, which is the one being shopped
in the Senate.
So my point is that we don't-- we haven't found a way into the House language. But the House
language has been abandoned by its earlier supporters. So we would be included in the $32 billion
that we're all currently pushing for.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Caitlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No further questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Great reports. Thanks for those and no questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you very much. No, my question was answered by Director
Cook's question. So thank you very much for the reports.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you all.
We have no information items and will go to Other Matters. We have a tribute to Sherry Ellebracht.
But first I'm just going to ask if there are any other matters from the Board.
Hearing none, we'll move on. And I wish we could be together to celebrate a little more, Sherry.
But this will be-- it's glad to have the opportunity to honor all your great years of service to RTD.
And I'm going to start it off with Pauletta Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. This is Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant
General Manager of Communications.
So the Government Relations function is within our Communications Department. And Sherry
Ellebracht. has capably served the agency and the public for almost 22 years in the role of
Government Relations Officer. And next Friday, August 14, she will retire and move on to her
next phase of life, which I'm sure will be fantastic world travels, as she and her husband Joe have
done over the years. And I just want to take a second to say some of the things that Sherry has
contributed to RTD.
She, of course, has been our liaison for local, state, and federal matters, overseeing our lobbying
partners and working in tandem with them on matters that we all need to be aware of and to move
RTD forward. She was instrumental in tying together a lot of the pieces in the full funding grant
agreements that RTD has had the benefit of receiving over the years. She coordinated our annual
appropriations requests and also has, of course, monitored proposed legislation, making sure that
RTD officials know about legislation that could potentially affect us.

And of course this past year, it was a very busy year and Sherry was very busy keeping us all in
the loop. She represented RTD at CASTA, at the Metro Mayors Caucus, and attended many of the
meetings of the Denver Chamber, Downtown Denver Partnership, and also helped us a lot in our
special events and grand openings, our major events, and coordinating elected officials'
participation in those events.
And I guess what I would say about Sherry, as we all wish her well in her next phase of life, is that
terms that will always be associated with her are thoughtful, respectful, dedicated, honest, loyal,
happy. I will miss her smile greatly and her presence in the office, when we all finally get back
there. But she has been a steadfast steward for RTD. And I'm really sad, in addition to Madam
Chair, that we are not able to wish her well in a proper in-person tribute.
But I just want to say thank you, Sherry. And on behalf of the Communications Department, I
want to wish you well. And I'm going to get a little weepy here, but I want to wish her well as she
and her family move on and enjoy what they've been working for for many years.
So Madam Chair, I will turn it back over to you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. You know, we have our lobbying teams all wanting
to speak and then we'll turn it over to the Board or others that wish to speak.
So I think we'll go back, Roger, and start with you.
ROGER SHERMAN: Great. Thank you very much.
This is a real bittersweet moment for all of us that work daily with Sherry. My working with Sherry
dates back to the FasTracks campaign in 2004. She was a regular attendee of a lot of the strategy
meetings with Cal Marsella and the rest of the senior leadership team.
And then, of course, as local government relations consultants since then, I think I've probably
talked to Sherry more than anyone else at the agency multiple times a week. And I really have
appreciated kind of her calm, steady approach to dealing with this. Often, we're in the middle of
crises and/or issues that are needing immediate action. And we could always count on Sherry to
be available and to give us great guidance and to work together as a partner.
I know Maria would say, how the heck did Sherry get out of here before she did. But we are going
to miss you and certainly wish you and Joe all the best in your retirement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you, Roger. Jenifer Brandeberry.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Sure. Oh, Sherry, congratulations on such an amazing career RTD.
All of us at Brandeberry-McKenna have been privileged to work with you, along with our local
team at CRL and our federal team at Squire Patton Boggs, for close to two decades. And as you
know, well, we've had plenty of challenges over the years under the golden dome. But thanks to
your professionalism and reputation, hard work and your skills, we've always successfully
navigated the many machinations of legislative sessions that came before us.

As you well remember when we first started working, all three branches of government were
controlled by Republicans. And as you leave RTD, all three branches are now controlled by
Democrats. And we've worked hand in hand with many sessions where the chambers were split
by various parties. But what has been absolutely constant along this journey has been your
willingness to work with our team, to educate new legislators, work with us to make sure legislators
knew who senior staff was and their Board members. And all of that hard work has left RTD on
some very solid footing to tackle our next chapter. And I just want to thank you for that partnership.
Finally, personally what I will always miss about you is your gracious sense of humor and your
friendship. And all of us at Brandeberry-McKenna are going to miss you and we're truly happy for
you to embrace your next big challenge, and that's retirement. So hugs and kisses, and we miss
you dearly already. So thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Jenifer. And I think Patty Doersch is next.
PATTY DOERSCH: I'm happy to talk. I'll keep mine short because I know Mike Dino has a very
longstanding relationship with Sherry. I'd like to say a few words.
You know, earlier we sent in a video which is kind of more, my more extensive comments. But I
have some written remarks because if I didn't write it in advance, I would be sobbing on this call.
Squire Patton Boggs has had the privilege of representing RTD's interests in Washington for 20
years, which means that we've really had the pleasure of working with Sherry for those 20 years.
We are very grateful for this opportunity to basically take stock of all that she has accomplished
and all of her many contributions.
So for a career as broad as Sherry, a life as well lived as hers, means there is much to praise. Now
first of all, we have appreciated her clear focus and sharp mind that she has brought to solving
RTD's challenges. We all know Sherry talents and interests lie beyond her important work at RTD,
and we certainly know Sherry to be well traveled, well educated, and well read. These metrics are
just one measure of her accomplishments and their impact.
[AUDIO OUT] other one that I think is quite telling. Last month, Congressman Perlmutter used
the occasion of her impending retirement to recognize his good friend Sherry Ellebracht on the
House floor. He praised the legacy that she leaves after 22 years at RTD in advancing public
transportation and improving the quality of life for residents of Colorado. With congratulations
and his best wishes, Congressman Perlmutter lent his voice to the chorus of well-wishers here and
in Washington, DC who have worked with Sherry.
[AUDIO OUT] my own journey up the ranks of my profession was made smoother because I stood
on the shoulders of outstanding women who came before me. Sherry and those in her generation
[AUDIO OUT] competence and professionalism.
[AUDIO OUT]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Patty, are you there? I think we're losing you.

PATTY DOERSCH: I'm sorry if I was cut off. Maybe I should turn it over to-- OK, I'm happy to,
just a few final words, though, is that Sherry has accomplished so much. We think about all the
appropriate metaphors here, moving mountains, blazing trails, breaking down barriers. She has
absolutely done them all. And as she enters the next phase of her life, we can be certain that in
some ways, that future is much like the time that has passed, rich with opportunities for a life that
truly has been well lived.
So Sherry, Godspeed to you from all of us at Squire Patton Boggs.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Patty. That was great. Mike Dino, you have some-MIKE DINO: Yeah, this is Mike Dino. Yeah, thank you, Chair.
I'm just thrilled for Sherry. I think she's entering the most exciting time of her life. We've talked
about how exceedingly professional and capable she is. But to me, she's one of the most kind and
considerate people I know. I've just enjoy being around her impeccable style and grace. And
always, she always exudes a calming patience with such class. And there have been many great
people, and there are great people now at RTD, but Sherry is the best person I've ever worked with
at RTD. And it's just been a wonderful privilege. I'm surely going to miss you, Sherry. But I'm
grateful that you were part of 20 years of my life.
So thank you very much and have a lot of fun.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much. Are there people-- anyone from the Board that
would like to speak up? And maybe I'll go ahead speak first, and then we'll see if there are others
from the Board
I don't have that long history. I find it inspiring just to hear it. And I've certainly heard it from some
of the people who were speaking, our lobbyists along the way. So I just want to say thanks so
much from me to you, Sherry, because you've been so generous with your time. My time here is
much shorter, just a year and a half. But you've guided me. You've always provided lots of
knowledge and background. And we had some big tasks this year, dealing with some problematic
provisions in SB-151 and then working with the legislature and governor's office to set up the
Accountability Committee. And you were a huge help, an important part of the team, and always
a lot of fun to work with.
So I really appreciate all you've done for me and for RTD over the years. Are there, is there anyone
else on the Board who would like to speak to Sherry?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Sherry, for the past, over the past decade, I have to say to you
that for me, you represent quiet dignity and grace. And with that, your strength has been
unmeasurable. I think you've done an amazing job. And the thing that I am always been so grateful

for is the sense of calm and peace that you bring to your persona and that you exude around people.
And I can't tell you how much comfort I have always found in that.
But I have to thank you on behalf of my family, because you were such a tremendous mentor for
my daughter when she worked at Congresswoman DeGette's office. Carly has just found you to
be such a tremendous support and really honors your intellect and your ability and your
information and always willing to listen to anybody who called.
I will say that you and I share the love of traveling. And I know you and Joe are going to just have
a blast. And I'm following you. Everywhere you guys go, I write down and make sure I get there
as well. But I would just like to say to you, I'm going to miss you, my friend. But I am so thrilled
for you and Joe and the adventures you guys are going to have. And call every once in a while.
And I'll be calling you every once in a while, because I think that you're too important in my life
to just let you go retire. I'm going to bother you a little bit, OK? Take care. Abrazos!
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you, Director Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sherry, I just want to say that I've had the privilege of knowing you your entire
22 year tenure at RTD, first, when I was a consultant working with you, next, when I was
partnering with RTD on so many important initiatives while I was at CDOT, including the
development of Denver Union Station, the FasTracks program, and T Rex, just so many wonderful
memories. You have always brought, as other directors and your colleagues have said, just
tremendous poise, grace, and professionalism to your role at RTD. And I will also miss you. Thank
you so much for your service.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think I heard Director Cook next, and then maybe Director Tisdale.
SHELLEY COOK: I think it was Director Whitmore.
But Sherry, you are among the people I've known longest at RTD. But it wasn't until I actually
joined the Board that I got to see you work up close. And in particular, I'm recalling the trip to
Washington, DC in March of 2019 and seeing you explain the intricacies of the CRP. It was
obvious to me that you were respected, well informed. You had such presence and knowledge and
exerted good judgment in all of those interactions.
So I had long thought of you as a warm and friendly and important person at RTD, but really come
to appreciate what you've done for the agency and the region in the time I've been on Board. And
I know that every one of my predecessors, Terry, Wally, Lorraine, I'm not sure if you worked with
Tom Spooner, but I would know that every one of them carry the same high regard for you and
wish you very well. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Was that Director Tisdale or Director Whitmore, I guess? Who
was next?
TROY WHITMORE: I would guess probably both of us. But this is Director Whitmore to start.
You know, I think I've known Sherry for the longest timeframe of any RTD employee. And long
before I ever had an inkling that I'd be a Board member, Sherry was so gracious and such a
consummate professional, representing the agency in a lot of the north metropolitan organizations.
I was extremely involved in the Governmental Affairs Committee with the Metro North Chamber
for probably almost two decades and probably got to know Sherry, as Roger had mentioned,
around the FasTracks campaign time. And as mentioned, such a great representative, consummate
professional, calm and poised and often found herself under fire in meetings over the past couple
of decades and handled it with such dignity and professionalism. It's been a pleasure to work the
last 18 months at the Capitol with Sherry. And I know how well respected she is. Well, I know
more tonight with the wonderful tributes from our lobby teams and others. Well-deserved.
I wish her and her husband the best. And I do hope you'll find time to inform us of your travels, or
maybe you can start a travel log blog. That sounds great. Because I think you would be very good
at that. Best wishes and Godspeed, Sherry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I've had the distinct privilege of working
closely with Sherry for my entire term on the Board to date, when I was the Vice Chair of this
committee and then as Board Chair for two years. Throughout that time, she was always gracious,
patient, understanding, politic, in the highest dictionary sense of that word, and warm. It was a
pleasure to work with her and to know her.
On a personal note, I always enjoyed seeing her with Joe at Mass when we were at APTA
conferences, and we'd find a church that was nearby the hotel. Given what we had to deal with at
many of those conferences, and especially the Legislative Conference in DC, it was very
comforting to me to know that in addition to Sherry having the ear of elected leaders, she also had
the ear of God. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director-- Director Buzek, go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I guess, you know, I have to concur with all the things that have
been said today by everyone else. And again, I haven't had the opportunity or the pleasure of
working with Sherry, just for this last year and a half, but it has been a pleasure. And boy, we're
going to miss that institutional knowledge. Because if you needed a question answered about
legislative history or anything going on with RTD, Sherry knew the answer. And that will certainly
be missed. She was always the go-to for those types of questions. Consummate professional, but
also a very sly sense of humor. And you will be missed. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Buzek. I'm sorry.

JEFF WALKER: Walker.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I just want to say thank you to Sherry, Miss Ellebracht, for all of the
patience that you showed to me, explaining all sides, not just two sides, but all sides, all angles, all
possibilities of any legislation at the local, federal, state level that you had to explain to me over
the years I've been on the Board.
It was always fun hanging out with you and your husband in DC, just talking about normal person
stuff, and then seeing you the next day in some senator's or representative's office, and you're down
to business then. And I love the way that you could hit that switch and make the personal go away
and the professional take over. But you're always personal in your professional appearance.
So anyway, I just want to say thank you. I will miss you terribly. But I am extremely happy that
you'll be exploring all these other new things out there. It might be a coincidence that Vice
President Biden is going to announce his VP pick next week and you're retiring this week. Maybe,
maybe not. I don't know. But I think it's a coincidence. But whatever you do, if you're not VP of
the country come January next year, I hope you have fun doing whatever you're doing. And I hope
to follow you on some social media platform. Thanks. That's it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Being VP would be out of the frying pan into the fire, I think, Sherry. But
it sounds like you have big travel plans. Are there other directors that would like to speak?
And I believe that there's another, probably virtual, gathering, but another chance for the staff to
speak. But I also wanted to give anyone that wanted to speak tonight the opportunity the
opportunity to do so.
Am I right, Pauletta, there's a separate gathering or something?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, Madam Chair. We do have other things planned. And I don't want
to ruin it right now because I know Sherry is listening. But yes, there will be opportunities. And I
know staff who are on the line will make sure that they know so they can participate. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hope I didn't ruin a surprise.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Oh, no. No, you're good. You're good. Yeah. No, it's all good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, Madam Sherry after all that adulation, can you still speak? Would
you like to say something?
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Yes. Can you hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can, yes.

SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Oh, thank you. Thank you all so much for your gracious comments.
You know, now I'm thinking maybe I just won't leave. No, seriously, next Friday will be my last
day. But I will never forget RTD. And I intend to follow everything you guys are doing. So be
careful what you do. I'll be following you in the news and probably calling some of you just to
say, what's going on? Because it's going to be really hard to cut the ties after almost 22 years of
this being just my daily, and nightly, sometimes, routine of taking care of things.
But I just so appreciate all of you and all the people that I've worked with. It's just been an amazing,
amazing 22 years. Doesn't seem like that long at all. And I'm just glad I didn't start crying, which
I thought I would. But thank you. Thank you all very much for your comments. They mean so
much to me, and to Joe. He's here listening. And we'll stay in touch. And we do have travel plans,
but it's quite limited with the COVID. So we'll just have to get in our car and drive somewhere.
So thank you again. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Sherry. That's great. We all wish you all the best, as you can
hear.
And I believe-- is that all we have tonight? Our next meeting is October 6, 2020. And do we have
a motion to adjourn? I guess we'll take, what, a five-minute break before our next meeting.
JUDY LUBOW: That sounds good.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there a motion adjourn?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any objection? We are adjourned. Be back in five minutes.

