Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

STUDY SESSION
August 22, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Bob Broom
Director, District F

Status
Absent
Present
Absent

Arrived
5:28 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Remote
Absent
Absent
Present

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Remote

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:18 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:20 PM
5:18 PM
5:22 PM
5:13 PM
5:27 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:18 PM

Directors Deadwyler and Lubow participated via phone.
Francone, and Folska were absent.
Staff Present:

5:27 PM

Directors Anderson, Broom,

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Susan
Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Doug Gragg, Erik Haugen, John Hersey, Russ Larson, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae

Parish, Jannette Scarpino, Cheryl Sclafani, Kirk Strand, Mark Tieman,
Tanzania Trout, Bill Van Meter, Susan Wood
Others Present:

William Gross, Steve Lebsock, Huiliang Liu, Angie Malpiede, Jeanne
Shreve, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

Chair Hoy noted RTD’s safety procedures in case an emergency situation occurred.

II.

2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan, 2017 Annual Program Evaluation, & Financial Plan
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance &
Administration, said that she along with Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget &
Financial Analysis, and Susan Cohen, Senior Manager of Finance, would be presenting the
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan (SPB), the 2017 Annual Program Evaluation (APE), and
the long range financial plan. She noted that they would spend more time on the long
range financial plan since that portion did not balance, and while there was a way to get it
to balance, it would not be a popular option. She noted that staff would continue to have
discussions concerning the APE and the SBP in September, and a final recommendation
would be brought before the Board in October. She stated that, because of the time it had
taken to get to this point, there would not be enough time to review the APE or SBP if a
vote occurred in September.
Ms. Scarpino commented that this was the latest version of the SBP and it was balanced
over the six-year period by:









Additional reductions to Capital and Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
projects
Revised lower debt service from bond refundings
Revised investment income from higher interest
Rate forecast and adjusted investable balances
Fare revenue recalibration
o One year of data from fare increase
o Revised average fare revenue
o Re-allocation to Base (higher) and FasTracks (lower)
Base cross-funding to FasTracks in 2023
Use of reserve balances to balance SBP in 2020-2021 – replenished in 2022 and
2023

Ms. Scarpino added that the capital and O&M projects that were classified as safety,
compliance, backlog, or replacement were moving forward in the SBP and noted that the
projects on hold were deemed to be enhancements or expansion. She stated that a final
project list will be presented to the Board for approval in October. She remarked that,

while the SBP will generate good cash flow in 2022 and 2023, the most difficult years will
be 2020 and 2021.
Ms. Cohen commented that this was the third draft of the 2017 APE and changes since
the last presentation included:






Incorporated bond and COP refinancings closed in August 2017
Updated farebox revenue forecasts
Updated operating and maintenance cost forecasts
o Did not assume any service reductions
Added investment income on available balances
Used base system funding to fund FasTracks expenditures in 2023

Ms. Cohen explained that last year, when the long range financial plan was adopted, the
plan assumed that the Base system would fund FasTracks in 2024, but this draft has it
beginning in 2023. She noted that the plan is in now in balance and no longer in the red.
She added that there is a fund balance of $2 million and staff used the Capital Acquisition
Reserve, the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) and Base system funding to fund
the gaps.
Director Menten commented that dipping into the reserves to close the gap would only
take care of an immediate problem. She asked how many times RTD had used reserves to
close the gap and not seen the projected income and asked how safe this move was.
Ms. McKillop commented that RTD only started reserves a few years ago. Since that
time, revenue forecasts have gone down, but staff had been able to place funds into the
reserves. She said that for this SBP cycle staff had to move money around in order to
balance. She stated that staff felt that it would be more appropriate to use the reserves to
pay for projects instead of pushing them out too far. She added that pushing projects out
too far would put RTD in a precarious position and staff did not want that.
Director Menten asked what staff planned to do if the 2022-2023 estimated revenue
funds did not come to fruition.
Ms. McKillop stated that staff would have to examine operations and capital replacements
and determine the most important needs at that time. She noted that staff will examine
this again next year to review the agency’s position.
Director Tisdale asked, in reference to the APE Summary Cash Flow, whether the FISA
would in fact be depleted but then restored in 2021-2023.

Ms. McKillop said that was incorrect. She noted that the FISA would be depleted by 2020
and it would never come back again.
Director Williams asked if staff understood the justification of CU Leeds’s 50% increase in
the sales tax forecasts in 2022 and 2023.
Ms. McKillop remarked that they felt very strongly that is where the economy will be.
Director Williams stated that they must know that something is going to happen in 2023
that everyone else does not know.
Chair Hoy commented that the whole forecasting process is a dark science, and RTD was
blamed many times in the past for being wrong with the internal forecasts, which caused
staff to move to using an outside professional. He noted that by 2023 RTD will have had
several additional forecasts.
Ms. McKillop noted that she would be happy to share CU Leeds’ documentation that
supports their claims.
Director Sisk said that one of the things he has noticed is that staff is using updated fare
box revenue forecasts. He noted that staff needs to dive deep into that too, and the
reality is that the agency is going to have to deal with this next year. He commented that
what staff is implying is that there will be fare revenue increases and the agency is going
to have to make tough decisions. He asked what the fare increase percentage was.
Ms. McKillop responded that it was 10%.
Director Sisk remarked that staff needs to think about doing fare increases on an
incremental basis, and if it is done on an inflation factor, there would hopefully be less
resistance.
Director Lubow stated that it seems to her that the agency is looking at utilizing a reserve,
which could come back to haunt RTD. She added that staff is making assumptions that
could also haunt the agency in the future as well. She noted that the SBP was balanced,
but staff had to do some dancing so to speak, including utilizing reserves. She added that
another issue is that staff is assuming that they can get greater useful life out of the fleet
vehicles.
Ms. McKillop explained that staff is assuming that the vehicles can be used 16 to 18
years. She noted that staff has been able to do that in some circumstances, but staff
hopes in a few years, RTD’s situation will change for the better.

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, stated that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) guidance is that they will
help replace them every 12 years. He noted that a few years ago, RTD used 14 years for
the replacement baseline and, since that point in time, staff has used 14 years as the
replacement sweet spot. He added that staff assumes RTD will get 16 to 18 years
because of the current replacement challenges.
Director Lubow inquired if RTD had data to support that.
Mr. Abel stated that staff does the analysis, and in reality, staff will not allow vehicles in
improper condition remain on the streets, but it meant that maintenance costs would go
up.
Director Lubow asked if that was included in the budget.
Mr. Abel remarked that staff had not addressed that at this time.
Director Lubow asked what else the agency would do in addition to using vehicles for 16
to 18 years.
Ms. McKillop noted that the life of the vehicles was the biggest assumption at this time.
She commented that the largest items scheduled were roof replacements at East Metro
and Platte, and in lieu of pushing those out to a specific date in the future, they will be
reassessed yearly. She added that staff is trying to use the asset management process to
determine the condition assessment as of now in comparison to where it was.
Director Mihalik asked for an explanation of the 156% fare increase in the APE.
Ms. Cohen explained that it was a combination of the build out of the additional lines and
the fare increase that Director Sisk mentioned.
Director Mihalik commented that those figures were ambitious, especially compared to the
year before.
Director Menten asked how close RTD was to getting some of the funding for local
matches and when would a report be available for the Board.
Ms. McKillop commented that staff had done a good reconciliation, and as far as cash
contributions, the Board would not see an exact cash contribution in that amount. She
explained that most contributions were done in kind, some were over matched, and others

are close to 2.5%. She added that the matches were made according to how the original
agreements were written.
Director Menten inquired if it was just the W Line that fell under old agreements.
Ms. McKillop said no and noted that there were others as well.
Ms. McKillop commented that staff would move on to the long range financial plan and
Ms. Cohen would start with the basics, and she would insert some additional information.
Ms. Cohen explained that the long range financial plan was an overall long term plan for
RTD that included FasTracks and the Base system forecasts. The plan overview and
purpose included:






Overall long-term financial plan for RTD
o Includes FasTracks and Base system forecasts
o Extension of the APE and SBP
Submitted to DRCOG for incorporation into Regional Transportation Plan (RTP)
o Required for anyone in the region to receive federal funding
o Time horizon to 2040 to match RTP
Required by lenders and potential lenders to prove RTD ability to repay debt
o Time horizon through final repayment of existing or proposed debt (currently
2050)

Financial Plan Major Elements include:







FasTracks corridor construction
o Post-opening projects through 2040
Ongoing operations and maintenance – FasTracks and base system
o Operating and maintenance costs
o Capital replacement and rehabilitation costs
o Ridership forecasts and farebox revenues
Revenue sources
o Sales and use tax projections
o Federal grants
o Local and third party revenues
Reserves

Ms. McKillop stated that one thing that staff did not discuss for the Base system was that
the Transportation Expansion Project (T-REX) bonds would be paid off in 2024. She noted
that, since staff does not know what will happen in 2023 and 2024, it is impossible to

estimate what the reserves would look like. She explained that the worst-case scenario, if
there was not another action taken by 2024 to de-Bruce the Base system, and a recession
occured, would be that RTD would have to deal with the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights
(TABOR). She stated that for next year’s SBP, staff will be able to better estimate what
may or may not impact RTD. She noted that there could be substantial impacts, and it
becomes even more important if RTD has to refund revenue from the Base system.
Ms. Cohen noted that the Financial Plan changes from 2016 encompassed:




Decreased revenue forecasts
o Sales and use tax
o Farebox revenues
Increased operating and maintenance costs
o Base and FasTracks

Ms. Cohen commented that, on the Sales Tax and Use Chart, the blue line is where RTD
was last year, and the orange line is CU Leeds forecast which is steadily below the blue
line.
Ms. McKillop added that the difference in sales and use forecasts for both the Base
system and FasTracks is $480 million. She explained that this plan is significantly
different from last year, with a large cost attributed to the North Metro Line costs. She
also noted that staff had made preliminary assumptions for the upcoming Collective
Bargaining Agreement (CBA) negotiations, and she commented that RTD had recently
increased benefits for operators with the $1 per hour pay increase. She explained that
what the Board is seeing is that revenue forecasts came down and operation costs
increased, causing friction in the SBP.
Director Lubow inquired as to what was the total difference.
Ms. McKillop stated that between now and 2040 the difference was estimated to be $1.3
billion.
Ms. McKillop remarked that the long range forecast was in a different format than the
Board had seen before. She stated that this would allow for better transparency and
visibility and noted that the Board should see positive balances in the Base system again in
2024. She noted however, that 2024-2030 has a couple of assumptions, including the
State Highway 119 project which has a funding need of $30 million and a new
maintenance facility that will need to be added somewhere in the district for $50 million,
so that timeframe has a deficit of at least $80 million.

Ms. McKillop explained that there is a similar situation on the FasTracks side. She noted
that from 2024-2040 staff has estimated that there will be a consistent shortfall and
compounding operating and maintenance costs would make the shortfall larger every year.
She stated that one option to balance would be to use the Base system to offset the
shortfall.
Ms. McKillop said that the Board policy is to have 1.2 times debt service coverage and the
only ways to meet that would be to: reduce debt, increase revenue, or decrease O&M
costs, or a combination of all three. She noted that in the near term RTD is struggling and
the agency needs to think about increasing revenues, decreasing operating and
maintenance costs, and restructuring debt. She remarked that as of now this is the best
estimate of the agency’s position with the information that is available.
Ms. McKillop highlighted that the Long-Range Plan (LRP) challenges would be:









Completion of ongoing projects
State of good repair
Operating and maintenance cost of completed corridors
Sales and use tax volatility
Farebox revenues
Financing capacity and funding constraints
Debt service coverage
Construction and operation of currently unfunded corridors

Director Menten asked when staff would have the revised capital projects list available.
Ms. Scarpino stated that it would be brought forward in conjunction with the final SBP
recommendation in October.
Director Menten asked if Bruce Abel could provide the latest analysis of bus routes with
smaller capacity vehicles. She remarked that RTD should utilize more efficient vehicles
rather than reduce service.
Mr. Abel explained that 70% of RTD’s operating and maintenance costs related to labor.
He stated that in terms of bus size, comparing smaller buses to larger buses was a wash
because of the labor costs.
Director Tisdale asked how the agency will spend $3.36 billion for capital expenditures
over the term of the LRP when FasTracks expenditures are only estimated to be $208
million.

Ms. Cohen explained that the Base system assets are significantly older and, over the
period of the long range plan, RTD will have to replace the existing bus fleet at least once
per vehicle. She added that anything that is replaced will have to be replaced again, and
assets such as Park-n-Rides, technology, and other assets will have to be
replaced/maintained as well. She stated that since FasTracks has newer vehicles and
infrastructure, replacements will not be needed for quite some time.
Director Sisk commented that eventually the Base system is going to have to support the
FasTracks system, and at some point they will need to merge.
Ms. McKillop remarked that she did not think the .4% tax would be able to support or
build anything in the future like what it had already done.
Director Sisk asked if staff had taken into consideration the fact that RTD has an
expensive labor base.
Ms. McKillop stated that staff had made some assumptions in regards to the upcoming
CBA negotiations.
Director Sisk added that staff also needs to take into consideration the unforeseen costs
that the agency may have on the existing FasTracks projects.
Ms. McKillop noted that staff had assumed an additional $52 million for construction cots.
She added that there could be something that comes out of a legal process which could
exceed that estimation.
Director Walker asked if there was a specific maintenance item that wears out the fastest.
Mr. Abel explained that there is a maintenance schedule, but it would be difficult to
provide an analysis of the shortest lifespan of a part or component.
Director Walker commented that, when the City and County of Denver was going through
its GO Bond process, street pavement was a significant issue. He asked if RTD would see
a benefit in Denver’s bond initiative that would help lessen RTD’s expenses.
Mr. Abel remarked that he was not sure that any physical improvements would reap
benefits for RTD’s operations.
Director Walker noted that RTD will be in a tough situation for the next couple of years.
He said that he hoped local jurisdictions would recognize RTD’s benefit to their jurisdiction
and would work with RTD on much needed improvements.

Director Williams inquired whether staff factors in autonomous vehicles and other program
enhancements during planning.
Ms. McKillop explained that, until the technology becomes more realistic, it is difficult to
determine how autonomous vehicles would help RTD. She added that, when examining
operating and maintenance costs, staff has to look at other ways to do business in the
future.
General Manager Genova stated that staff cannot quantify those things at this time,
however, staff does know the cost of maintenance and labor to maintain and deploy
RTD’s current equipment.
Director Williams commented that she wanted to make sure that staff was focusing on
new technology and those types of options were included.
Ms. McKillop explained that the CU Leeds forecast focused on aging populations,
millennials, populations groups that were using transportation, and which age groups were
buying cars.
Director Archuleta asked about the cost break down for the new electric buses on the 16th
Street Mall.
Mr. Abel stated that there would be a significant operations and maintenance savings in
comparison to the acquisition of them.
Director Tisdale inquired if it would be appropriate for the Board to have an executive
session for certain budgetary questions.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, said yes and added that there should and will be an
executive session to fill the Board in on staff’s anticipated approaches.
Director Lubow remarked that she was very disappointed. She noted that to her this LRP
shows that there had been a wild divergence between income predictions and realities.
She added that there seems to be some issue with the forecasting and noted that the
economy is not in bad shape. She stated that there are lessons learned that RTD should
take away from this and she would like to hear what they were. She also inquired about
further clarifications in terms of RTD’s challenges.
Ms. McKillop stated that, in relation to on-going projects, the N Line has been a challenge
and the additional funding needed and added to that corridor is a challenge.

Director Solano asked, in light of the long range financial plan eclipsing the short term
plan, whether the opening of the N Line would be pushed back.
General Manager Genova said that, in regards to the construction schedule, staff is still
working through negotiations and claims with the contractor.

III.

Other Matters
Director Menten commented on the C470 bridge widening project and asked what section
of C470 would be affected.
General Manager Genova stated that it was between County Line and Lincoln.
Director Menten added that she hoped with Rail~Volution coming up that there would be
an honest discussion about the FasTracks promises that were not fulfilled. She said that
she wanted the agency to be up front and honest with the rest of the nation and noted
that the agency is still unsure as to when the rest of the project plans will materialize.
Director Solano commented that RTD is treated like the gold standard across the county.
He said that if that was the case staff should teach everyone what the agency did wrong
instead of what it did right.
General Manager Genova said that staff is very honest and candid in conversations. He
noted that he is honest with everyone about where RTD stands and the agency’s concerns
from stakeholders, whether he is at Rail~Volution, the American Public Transportation
Association (APTA), or the Multi-Exchange (MAX) Program. He added that RTD has
presented at the White House a few times and staff had always presented the good, the
bad, and the ugly.
Director Solano inquired about the letter RTD received from the City of Westminster.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD had received several letters from various
stakeholders, but at this time, the service reductions cited in the letter were not part of
the balanced APE that was just presented.
Director Walker remarked that he hoped people would open up their homes to
Rail~Volution attendees. He stated that most people coming here do not have a large
expense account, and usually, it is the only way that they are able to attend.
Chair Hoy noted that former Director Lasater was in town and wanted to say hello to
everyone. He added that the next two Tuesdays were free since no meetings were

scheduled, and next year, staff is going to try to implement a meeting schedule that is
more considerate and that includes only necessary meetings.
Director Williams remarked that the Denver Regional Mobility & Access Council (DRMAC)
had a quarterly Regional Coordinating Council (RCC) meeting scheduled for September
30th.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

