2024-07-01
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Good morning. The Monday, July 1 performance committee will now come to order. We
are convened as of 8:30 AM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask that anyone attending this
meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this morning.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will
be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial meetings of the minutes-- or the minutes of the meetings,
excuse me, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we are
also providing Communication Access, Real-Time Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would
like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com,
and a link will be provided. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am the Chair Peggy Catlin. I'm here. All committee members are present. Oops,
Director Rosenthal, I forgot you, but I see you. Thank you. So you are present as well. And then I also see,
for the record, that we are joined by Director Lewis.
So we have all committee members present. And thank you all for accommodating your schedules. I would
like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed
in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if

you would like to be contacted regarding the webinar, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised for public comments?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, at this time, there is no one present who has raised their hand in
indication that they desire to provide public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. Were there any email comments received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, no, you did not receive any emails in advance of this meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK then, seeing no public comment and no participants in the queue, we will close the
public comment period at this time. There's only one discussion item on our agenda today, and I think it's
one that we've all been waiting for. And that is the 2024 employee survey results and data evaluation.
General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson and John McKay, Executive Business Partner, would you
present this item to the committee, please?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. Good morning to all those who are
assembled. I'm Debra Johnson. I'm the General Manager and CEO. And as indicated by the Committee
Chair's comments, Mr. McKay and I are here before you to present the 2024 employee survey results and
data evaluation. As you may recall from previous conversations relative to our Board-adopted strategic
plan, there are four strategic priorities.
The strategic priorities consist of community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and
financial success. Recognizing that we all are a part of a dynamic organization that's very much labor
intensive, we will be for not without the contributions of individuals that comprise the agency. In doing so,
it's critically important for us that we garner an understanding of our colleagues' perceptions, opinions, and
attitudes as it relates to the organization as a whole being the Regional Transportation District.
With that being said, during the latest bid shift, or I could say work selection process, with front line
employees that are represented, we intentionally garnered the opinions, perceptions, and attitudes of those
that comprise the agency during this period of time to optimize the survey data that we could collect. At this
juncture, I will yield the floor to Mr. McKay who has been shepherding this effort on behalf of the agency
with individuals within his work unit being our performance analyst.
I'm really excited to have him provide you with this information because it really gives a look into what we
have been doing collectively as contributors to this agency to ensure that we are optimizing our talent and
creating a work environment where individuals can thrive. With that, Mr. McKay, I will yield the floor to you.
Thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. As noted, I am John McKay, Executive Business Partner. Just a
quick screen check if someone could confirm that it is displaying.
PEGGY CATLIN: It is.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. As introduced, also, this is the employee survey for 2024. This is
the third such survey that is associated with our current strategic plan for 2021 through 2026. And I will give
a brief outline of the presentation. First, the introduction, we'll go over the nuts and bolts of the survey itself,
the survey administration, participation rate, that sort of thing.

We'll go into the Employee Net Promoter Score, which is the measure associated with the employee
ownership strategic priority in the success outcomes of the strategic plan. We will go over a Composite
Index Score, which is a different measure of employee satisfaction and engagement. We'll talk about
employee favorability, the responses to the survey itself, and then areas of largest improvement, also
strategic initiatives and how those have affected the scores or the results, rather, and then some key
takeaways from the survey.
Without burying the lead, the key takeaways, and I'll discuss these again at the end, we've seen increased
favorability in responses in many areas, actually in all areas across the entire survey. The Composite Index
Score, as I mentioned before, is the success outcome. The Employee Net Promoter Score is something
that is used in certain transit agencies across the country. And staff is assessing whether this is the correct
measure as opposed to the Employee Net Promoter Score-- or sorry, the Index Score as opposed to the
Net Promoter Score.
The Key Driver Analysis will show that there are a few areas of opportunity that staff can really focus on in
order to increase employee engagement and satisfaction. And finally, there is a trend among employees
related to their tenure within the agency as to how they respond to the survey itself.
PEGGY CATLIN: John, if I might interrupt, I don't know if Board members would like to-- or committee
members would like to ask questions as you go along or if you would prefer to go through the whole
presentation.
JOHN MCKAY: If I could go through the whole presentation, if folks could potentially just write down the
slide number that they'd be interested in doing more of a deep dive in, that'd be great.
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds good. Just wanted to lay the groundwork. OK, thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: So moving forward, survey administration, this was conducted in April through May, so from
April 15 through May 3, 2024, which as GM CEO Johnson noted, this aligned with the May work selection
period for front-line employees. There were 19 in-person events to bolster that participation in the survey
at nine different facilities.
And the survey was offered in several different formats. During the events, the staff had a tablet with them
in order to hand off to folks to take the survey, or it was available in printed form if they wanted. It was
available to all employees via SurveyMonkey online. And then printed copies were made available at all
operations and maintenance facilities across the entire surface district.
The survey structure, there were five job-related questions that we won't get into in depth here today. The
likeliness of recommendation to friends and family, that is the Employee Net Promoter Score, and that's on
a scale of 0 through 10. For folks-- for anyone familiar with Net Promoter Score, this is-- scores 0 through
6 are associated with detractors. 7 and 8 are people who are sort of neutral on their responses. And then
9 and 10 are your promoters, and we'll get into that more in a moment.
There are several related to the Likert scale of very satisfied through very dissatisfied, 17 favorability
questions, and 3 related to retention, which we'll get into in a moment. And then there was one open-ended
question. The response rate for 2024 is in line with what we saw in 2022, which we thought was a good
survey response rate in 2022. There were 930 surveys submitted that year. This year, there were 1,056
because of the increase in staff out of a total of 2,958 employees.

Last year's response rate of 47% was something of an anomaly. It was a huge output. And I'm not-- I was
impressed that year. I don't know that we should anticipate seeing something like that regularly in the future.
And on this slide, you also see some of the other factors that were associated with the survey that was
given in that particular year.
Moving forward, as for participation by department or division, as you'll see, Bus Operations and Rail
Operations, they account for the overall-- more than half of the survey responses. And you'll note that the
Administration Department is represented here under the red wedge at 12%.
This survey-- the questions were asked as though the Administration Department were still in its form as it
existed in January of 2024. The Administration Department has been dissolved in its current form, and the
functions have been placed in certain areas within the agency. So the question was associated with the
individuals who were within the Administration Department as it existed at the time of the beginning of the
year.
So on to the Net Promoter Score for employees. As you'll see, the Net Promoter Score went from negative
1 to negative 2, so not much of a drop. But as I noted, the 0 through 6-- the respondents who gave a 0
through 6 on this score, these are your detractors. The 7s and 8s are passives, and the 9s and 10s are
promoters. And so the formula of the Net Promoter Score equals the percentage of promoters minus the
percentage of detractors. And so we've come up with a minus 2 for this year.
And this is, as I noted, a measure that is used in the private sector specifically to gauge customers'
willingness to recommend a product or service.
And moving on to the Composite Index Score. This is a score that's made up of the responses to six different
questions. These are averaged to get this 74% mark. And we've seen a 12% increase from year over year,
which is a massive improvement. And let me go to the next slide to go into the questions that feed into this
index. So these are the six, and these will be repeated in a moment when we go over the 17 Likert scale
questions.
So moving from 83% to 66%, there are increases in each area within the agency. And in some places, we
have a 10% increase here, 13% here, and a massive 21% increase in the response to the question "I feel
that I am safe from crime in the work environment." And as you'll see in a moment, this 66% figure here is
the lowest favorability response in the entire survey. But moving from 45% to 66%, we are still-- 2/3 of
employees within the agency do believe that they are free from crime in the work environment, which is a
significant improvement.
Moving to the next. This is the employee ownership by tenure. As you'll see, we've had a 15% improvement
for individuals in the first year of employment. That drops down to 74% in years one through three. And
then, over time, this sort of evens out and then eventually increases in 10 or more to 72%. And even in that
category, in the 5 to 10-year category, we've moved from 58% up to 70% and 72%, respectively.
There is a small dip here in the middle in the three to five year category. This is the height of the COVID
years. So the employees who started employment with the agency during COVID or just before have a
slightly lower favorability in general.
And employee favorability, these are the 17 questions related to employee favorability. These are on a
scale of very satisfied to very dissatisfied. And again, across the board, these are in ranked order, going

downwards. So starting at the top, 88% of people feel that their supervisor treats them with respect. I won't
read each of these, but I will scroll through them quickly if anyone wants to read. I'm moving on to the next.
And again, these are in the mid to high 70s. These are very impressive scores. And again. And one more.
As I mentioned, 66% is the lowest among all of the responses. But it's still high. And again, by tenure, we're
seeing the exact sort of swoop that I mentioned before. It starts off at 89% in the first year. It dips down to
76%.
The COVID year employees are at 70% as overall favorability and then increasing in years 5 through
retirement, essentially. As I noted before, the largest area of improvement is in the response to the question
"I feel that I'm safe from crime in the work environment," massive 21% improvement, which I think is
fantastic.
As far as supervisors versus nonsupervisors, not much of a difference here. But nonrepresented employees
have a significant shift from 56% to 77%. And then represented front-line employees have seen a 16%
increase, which is also very encouraging.
And this is the second highest increase year over year in the area of employees who feel supported and
have opportunities for professional development. Again, not much difference between supervisors and
nonsupervisors and the same trend in represented versus nonrepresented employees and significant
increases in each area.
And then each of these, for some reason or other, had an increase of 15% year over year. I understand
RTD's mission and vision. I feel my perspective is invited and valued, even if it differs from that of my
supervisor or leadership. I am adequately informed about agency news projects and initiatives. And I am
provided the tools I need to grow my career.
So moving on to the strategic initiatives of back to basics, people power, and welcoming transit
environment, these all relate to the strategic priorities that are in the strategic plan. These were developed
in order to increase or to bolster some of those strategic priorities and the success outcomes associated
therewith. We can see that first, under back to basics, under the category of internal communication, we've
seen a 15% increase year over year.
Again, sort of the same trends between supervisors and nonsupervisors. Virtually the same for represented
employees and nonrepresented employees. Nonrepresented being much higher at 79%. But again, we've
seen that due to the initiatives related to the back to basics strategic initiative, we've seen a 15% increase
year over year.
Moving to people power with respect to employee retention. It says here 83% of people feel that they will
be working for RTD a year from now. And this is the first year that this question has been asked. So I'm
interested in seeing the trends year over year, but 83% to me sounds like a pretty good number. And an
additional 7% just aren't sure. So only 10% of people do not believe that they'll be with RTD within the
calendar year.
And the questions-- one of the questions related to-- the items that would make a person want to stay in
their job-- and you can see the top three responses were fair compensation, desirable hours or schedule,
and manageable workloads. And these massively outweigh all of the other factors here. These play into
the next slide with respect to key drivers. And the key drivers are something that I'm interested in taking a
deeper dive in year over year.

This is the first year that we've done this calculation for the employee survey results. We've done the same
for the community and customer survey results, and those are available on the website. As you'll see here,
the areas of opportunity, specifically professional development opportunities and opportunities for
advancement-- let me take a moment to talk about the chart itself.
So the items that are farther to the left are of lower importance, and the ones that are lower down in the
scale are lower satisfaction. So the higher you go and the farther to the right you go, these things matter
the most, and these things score higher than those over here. So we can see that fair compensation is
leading the way in terms of importance among employees. And the highest response for satisfaction is
within the area of agency values. People identify with the agency values, which is fantastic.
So we see that if we were to put more resources in these areas of opportunity, and that includes the ones
that are right on the line here, B and A as well, it would follow that if efforts were made to bolster those
items that we would see increased employee satisfaction and engagement.
And then last of the employee security with respect to welcoming transit environment strategic initiative,
this was, again, the largest increase year over year of 21%. We can see that some of the agency efforts to
improve security, personal security, and the feeling of being safe from crime in the work environment has
increased 21% year over year. Again, this is a fantastic result. Same trends here. We see that supervisors
and nonsupervisors are fairly close. And again, nonrepresented employees at 77% are fairly high,
represented employees at 51%.
And touching on this just for a moment, the represented employees, the front-line employees are out in the
field. They are not in a traditional work environment, in an office environment. So they are interacting with
individuals in the public, on the street. And so they are more likely to feel like they may be subject to crime
in the work environment.
And again, back to the key takeaways, as we've seen, there is increased favorability across the board. We
have seen that the Composite Index Score is more representative of that increase than is the Employee
Net Promoter Score. And so staff is assessing whether this Employee Net Promoter Score is the actual
best measure of employee satisfaction and engagement across the agency.
As I was sharing with Director Catlin before the meeting started, I attended a conference last week that did
a deep dive into transit agency performance measures. And the folks who organized the conference also
have used Employee Net Promoter Score within other agencies in the past or they've recommended that
as a good measure, they have since stopped recommending Employee Net Promoter Score as a measure.
So we have the opportunity to take a look at that and see whether the Composite Index Score or some
other measure might be the better indicator for employee ownership overall.
As we've seen the key driver analysis, there are areas of opportunity. There are places where we can put
efforts to increase employee engagement and satisfaction. And as we've seen, there is favorability
patterned by tenure that those folks who have been with the agency the shortest amount of time are more
likely to respond that they give a favorable rating. There's a slight decrease over time, but then there's an
increase as individuals stay with the agency longer. So that shows that we should put efforts into keeping
folks around longer.
And with that, I will conclude the presentation. I'll keep it up so that I can answer specific questions to any
of the slides, but I'm happy to take any questions at this time.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. McKay, and thank you, Ms. Johnson. I also noted that our Chief People
Officer Charlene Polege is here if she wanted to add any context to that. At this time, I'd like to open it up
to directors who might have any questions or comments. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Just a quick comment. Really good to see the dramatic increase in
the index score. And as I've said a million times before, I'm not a fan of that Net Promoter Score concept,
period. So index score, I think it gives you a more accurate reflection of what's going on.
With regard to the safety issue, represented employees, I know we're taking steps constantly to work on
that. And I hope we just continue to really push hard on making them feel safer. Thanks so much. That's all
I have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. Thanks for the presentation, Mr. McKay. I really
appreciate it. And Ms. Johnson and Ms. Polege, thank you for the work that's moving us in a good direction
here with some of the results on the surveys. I have two questions. The first is on slide 15, packet page 21.
This is where we were looking at that swoop, I think you called it, Mr. McKay. I'm curious whether that has
any correlation at all to what we see in retention.
In other words, I know we talked a lot about our goals around folks who join the agency and then having
pretty immediate challenges with retention. But I'm curious, is around the three to five year mark in typical
years where we're seeing more churn? And then as folks stay, there are folks that are generally more
satisfied with the agency? Or does this not correlate at all with any kind of churn or retention?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Committee Chair Catlin, I'll start and then yield the floor to my colleagues.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure. Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. And thank you, Chair Davidson, for the question. So prior to
yielding the floor, I want to provide context. Typically, as one looks at information relative to a transit agency,
this seems to be par for the course, recognizing that in an industry such as ours, coming into the agency,
especially when you're a representative employee, you do not have the opportunity to select optimal work
shifts that may work for your lifestyle. And I say that because it's based on seniority.
When we do train employees, it's typically happening during the course of a business day, not working on
an owl shift, which typically an owl shift could be categorized commencing at 9 o'clock at night. So
individuals are coming into the organization. They may have mentors and things of the like. And while it
may be challenging in that first to three-year time period, eventually they build up seniority, and they have
an opportunity to bid on different shifts as they go forward.
So I believe, and like I said, this is my assessment relative to my experience in this industry, that it is
indicative of working in the transit agency since this profession has transcended somewhat. And then, more
specifically, we have leveraged different support mechanisms-- and Ms. Polege could speak to that-relative to providing individuals with state interviews. So we can garner an understanding during those
pivotal times in which they're really becoming acclimated to their work environment.
So with that, Ms. Polege, would you like to add any additional context relative to what I've stated?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Polege.

CHARLENE POLEGE: So can you hear me now?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great. So Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. Too, I would reinforce what GM
Johnson has communicated, certainly with our represented employees, who have variations in their
schedules. I would also say that this is a point in time, so this is a great metric for us.
And with the Employee and Labor Relations Department, we're actually looking at-- we do do stay
interviews in the first 90 to 100 days, but we're actually looking and exploring at trying to do a stay interview
or a pulse, if you will, on an anniversary date, so trying to catch more individuals as they're further along.
So that would hit and give us additional data points at years one, two, three, four, five.
So I don't want to say much more than that, because this is one data point, but it's pointing to additional
areas of focus that we want to look into so that we can explore. And as well, the difference between
represented and nonrepresented, we still need to look into that and see what may be impacting that score
as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Polege. Chair Davidson, did that answer your question?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It did, Committee Chair Catlin. Thank you very much. And very interesting and cool to
hear about the stay interviews. Committee Chair, I'll hold my second question for the rest of the directors
and go to the back of the line. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have two quick questions, I hope. How are we
communicating-- I'm looking at packet page 34, slide 28, the difference between the represented and
nonrepresented folks. And so how are we communicating differently to ensure that our represented folks
get the same message with the same frequency?
And I ask that because it's always quite a bit easier to do it when you're on a computer, when you're getting
emails, when you're in an office setting, where you have maybe some water cooler opportunities. But when
you're out driving a bus or operating a train or doing maintenance of way work, you might have a more
limited capacity. And having been a union member before, when you got to get the work done, there's no
time to chit chat. You've got to put hands to work. So I'm just curious about how we're maybe contemplating
communicating better with our represented folks. Anybody want to speak to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, please, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. And thank you, Secretary Guzman, for
your question. So recognizing, for all intents and purposes, the transit agencies just across the board, the
vast majority of their employees constitute represented employees, typically. And so with that as a
backdrop, there are different mechanisms in reference to leveraging communicate to those audiences to
the point that you raised, recognizing that perhaps they're not readily-- information is not readily accessible
because they're not sitting at a desk.

And some agencies in which I work, some individuals don't even have email addresses. So we're being
intentional, leveraging quite naturally a myriad of different avenues. We have what we call our Employee
Ownership Task Force. That's intentionally comprised of represented employees with a cross-section of
nonrepresented employees. We want to be able to ensure that our represented colleagues have a voice
and that their voice will be heard. So we leverage them in reference to this information. And they're getting
this feedback directly in reference to Mr. McKay and his staff relative to what's happening.
More specifically within the divisions, we have our displays where we give information, and we roll that out
specifically and garner an understanding about how best they would like to receive information. Thirdly,
there's a form of bulletins in which we provide to front-line employees in some instances where they have
to sign for them so we know they receive them. And also, we leverage their supervisors going forward to
disseminate information across the board.
And then fourthly, but certainly not least, contingent upon the message, we will actually email information
directly to their homes on record as well. As relates to providing information, I can tell you that I hear from
front-line employees. That's why, in turn, I have set up an email box specifically for inquiries. And then we
do have boxes throughout the organization, drop boxes whereby information can be placed.
And Ms. Polege has been shepherding that as we go forward because we want to ensure that we're circling
back and providing a loop. And then, more specifically, we are asking the question, recognizing that it's not
going to be a cookie-cutter approach, what might work best for them? So I'm going to yield the floor to John
McKay so he can speak more directly about the EOTF, the Employee Ownership Task Force, and then Ms.
Polege as well because we do have different mechanisms for different modalities, recognizing that we have
to ensure that we're providing information in the manner that our colleagues would like to receive it. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I see nods from Director Guzman. And before I yield the floor to Mr. McKay and Ms.
Polege, did that satisfy your question, Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah. I work an hourly job in a major corporation, and getting information from the
top down is often difficult. And so there's a compromise, which is I have to do my part, which is read what
I'm given and ensure that I understand it. But then there's also a real need to make sure that that information
is readily available. I don't sit at a desk. I'm standing behind a Mastrena machine, pulling espresso shots
most of my day and talking to customers.
And so in the same way, I can envision that that might impact how our represented employees through the
ATU are potentially not able to, in the moment, get information but have to follow up and do a bit of extra
work. And so the concern there is it's such a vast difference. I mean, there's a 20-point difference between
how they're agreeing and strongly agreeing with getting this information. It's good to see the improvement.
It was just a curious question that I had because I understand coming from a union position going forward.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may-- if I may, I forgot something that's critically important. On a weekly basis, we
disseminate Inside Connections, which is our weekly newsletter. And we're intentional, where we ensure
that we're providing an avenue where individuals can submit stories. And I have to tell you, through data
analytics that we look at on a weekly basis, one of the areas in which our colleagues enjoy receiving
information is about what other people are doing within the organization as a whole. And that's critically
important.

And the other component that I failed to mention is that on a bimonthly basis, I go along with my colleagues
to different divisions at different times of the day and have what I call dialogues with Debra. And basically,
it gives opportunity for our colleagues to ask questions of me. They can submit those in advance.
And then more specifically, as well, I've been known to pop up at a division at 10 o'clock at night. And it's
not a gotcha. It's to the point that Secretary Guzman raised, so I can see people in their work environment
when they are there and basically going to Denver Union Station on a Friday night-- I'll be in the bus box at
midnight. So all of those things are critically important, recognizing that they don't have the traditional work
hours, and we are a labor-intensive organization.
So I just wanted to acknowledge Secretary Guzman's comments because it is critically important that we
are communicating in a way in which people want to receive information. And quite naturally, there's two
different messages.
As we talk about I'm safe from a crime in the workplace, recognizing the disparity in the results, I'm not
sitting in a mobile office in a confined space where I am just exposed to the elements of people, unlike
somebody sitting at Civic Center. So we do have to keep that in mind and recognizing that's why we have
these strategic initiatives, leaning in to the point that we need help from state legislators in reference to
increasing penalties for those that don't respect the work environment in which our colleagues have. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Do you think it would be prudent at this point to add Mr. McKay
or Ms. Polege's perspective?
JOHN MCKAY: Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. GM CEO Johnson hit on most of the points that I would have covered. I just
want to to add a few other avenues through which these data will be communicated with employees. So
Inside Connections was mentioned. That's the sort of employee newsletter that is emailed every
Wednesday.
There's also the hot sheet that comes out at the end of each week. This is a brief two-page highlights that
are distributed to the represented employees on a regular basis. And it's really just the highlights. It's front
and back or just maybe-- sometimes it's one page only, highlighting the very tip-top things that need to be
known. And that's an avenue through which we could communicate very high-level employee or employee
survey data.
Also, information displays are distributed around the agency. These are for in operating facilities specifically.
There is a sort of a scrolling display showing information, upcoming events, things like that. This year, we're
trying something new. We're preparing a video outlining the results of the survey. And that will be played
on a regular basis on these information displays. And again, we're highlighting the key takeaways and the
most improved areas of these employee surveys.
There's also Facts and Snacks, which is sort of a misnomer. We don't provide snacks for these things, but
there is a video sort of seminar that is guided by staff, and employees are given the opportunity to ask
questions. And GM CEO Johnson mentioned the Dialogue with Debra and also highlighted the Employee
Opportunity Task Force.

This is a group of volunteers from across the agency. These are passionate folks who apply to participate
in these task forces that tackle individual-- this formulation, they tackle strategic initiatives specifically, or
they are assigned to one of three teams that addresses each of the strategic initiatives specifically. And
they sort of serve as acolytes to share this information with their peers as well. So they're spreading the
gospel of the good work that's being done.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Ms. Polege, would you like to add on?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Just one small item. I would just add that one of the-- we just recently completed
the revamp and launch of the supervisor and managers training, which completed June 30, actually. And
in that, one of those modules is about communication. And why I'm flagging this is because, to your point,
Director Guzman, when you are in the field and you're working, you're focused in the moment that job.
And we wanted to reinforce to our supervisors and managers that one of your key responsibilities is to
ensure that your staff have the information that they need at the time that they need it in order to perform
their job. And so that's another piece. So it's multifaceted. I think is what I'm trying to convey between what
GM Johnson said and what Mr. McKay said is that we're hitting it from multiple levels. And again, we're
seeing some improvement. But every time we get a data point, we look at it, and then we adjust and keep
trying to move that needle further so that represented groups in particular feel they're getting the information
they need when they need it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Polege. Director Guzman, you said you had a second question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Because I see a number of other directors in the queue.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, sorry. This one's more maybe a comment. I do have a concern on the slide 32,
page 38-- I think that's the right one; yes, this one-- about the tools and equipment location and the agency
culture. Yeah, J and G, that they're lower importance and lower satisfaction. And I'm curious to engage in
a conversation about that, but we can do that another time.
I just wanted to flag that those two are kind of outliers in a very weird part of that layout. And it causes me
concern that there's any question about not having the right tools or equipment available for employees.
And maybe I'm misunderstanding what that J stands for. But that caught my eye. We can't do our job without
the right stuff. And so do we have it or not?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay, would you like to respond to that?
JOHN MCKAY: Yeah, I can't speak specifically to the responses. I'm not sure exactly-- like Director Guzman
said, I don't know what that means exactly or what the responses to this mean. I can't say specifically what
tools or equipment folks don't have that they might need to perform their duties. Can't see on this. So these
are self-reported, the areas of importance. So these must have ranked fairly low.
Let me go back one slide here. So these are 115 responses related to this. So these were ranked order.
So fair compensation was vastly more important to employees at 808 responses to 115 here. So this
probably affects a smaller portion of the agency. And we'll have to do a deeper dive to understand which
tools and which equipment employees don't have or they feel that could be improved. And I see CPO
Polege's hand is up as well. She may have some additional information.

PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. The key way to look at that chart is it's a driver analysis. And so it's-where the rankings are, the intent would be these are the key things that would really push employee scores
in a positive fashion. So it's not to say that they're not important. It's just from a driver analysis, the ability
to impact change in a positive momentum.
That's the key. So it's not to say they're not important. It's just if we lost fair compensation, that would have
a much more-- a greater impact on overall employee satisfaction than the tools. That's really how it's
intended to be read, from a driver's perspective.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Polege. That clarifies it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair, can I say one thing?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: My only concern with that is-- and I appreciate the answers. Thank you very much.
But my only concern with that is if that's a lower importance and lower satisfaction, but there were only 115
responses, were the 115 responses all from the same department? For example, was it all the mechanics?
Or was it all the maintenance of way workers? Because for that particular subgroup within the pie chart that
you showed us earlier, it may be really top of mind for them.
And the results could be skewed because they're going up against folks that are in an administrative role
or in an operative role that are very different from what they're looking at. I don't know why that's calling my
attention. I just want to point that out because that could impact a specific subset of our employees in a
way that is maybe being overlooked if we're not careful with the information that we have. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: And before I go to GM CEO Johnson, I'm going to say John McKay pledged that they
wanted to do a deeper dive into this. So I think, Director Guzman, you bring up a couple of good points that
perhaps would factor into that further analysis. GM CEO Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. I was just going to further iterate that I have had the
opportunity to read each freestanding comment, and there is a cross-section. It's just not represented
employees. It's across the board. As we talk about tools and equipment, it could be having access to viable
training. It could be maintaining one certification. So there is a cross-section.
And as we did last year, when we see these things, we have focus groups with certain areas to be able to
discern what might be the causal factors relative to that. And to the point that you raised about perhaps like
mechanics not having tools, I don't want to delve too deeply, but recognizing that those are represented
employees, and there are elements provided to them, which are bargainable items. I can assure you they
were not in a position whereby somebody doesn't have a tool to do their job, because it's for the betterment
of the organization.
And so if we're hiring someone as a mechanic, we don't expect them to bring in certain elements of
equipment in which they need. So I just wanted to state that for the record. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms Johnson. OK, moving on. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Thank you very much for this work and the presentation. It's great to see.
Can we go back to slide 15, please? Yeah, thanks. I've been talking with one of our CAC members, Matt
Fromer, about-- I think in our Board documents, it shows our vacancy rate has gone from 11% to 20%. No,
our vacancy rate has gone from 20% to 11%. It's gotten a lot better. I'm sorry.
And I think when you were mentioning the numbers, Mr. McKay, you were saying that even though the
percentage went down this year, we had more responses. And I'm seeing that the numbers on the
composite score for the first-year people are really good. I mean, these are good numbers everywhere.
They've gone up. But they go up a lot more in that first-year group.
Have you pulled apart how many are in each of these groups and looked at if you took that first-year group
out where our numbers would be? You may not have, but that might be something that would be worth a
deeper dive when you go to do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Who would like to address that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may just start, Committee Chair Catlin. And Director Guissinger, thank you for the
question. But keeping in mind we want people to tell us what is actually happening, so relative to these
surveys, they are done from a level of anonymity as we go forward. So we will go back, as I said, and have
key focus groups as we go forward. I think that's critically important because recognizing with some
individuals there could be some trepidation and angst. So I just wanted to qualify that for all of you going
forward as we recognize doing a deeper dive.
So it's the willingness of somebody wanting to say whether or not they have spoken to that. But for us, and
I can yield the floor to Ms. Polege, recognizing what employees that have been here for less than one year,
that's why they're doing stay interviews, so we can garner a better understanding of what is keeping people
in the mix here at the organization. So I just wanted to provide that context. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Polege? Oh, sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to clarify, I'm not talking about individual people or anonymity, just the math. If
you took out these less than one year people, if we've gone to a better vacancy rate, I assume many of
those are less than one year, and their numbers are a lot higher. How do our numbers look really compared
to the group that we talked to last year? I think it would be-- and they look good, but I think it would be an
interesting way of looking at the people who've been here longer. I'm sorry, Ms. Polege, if she had more.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I would just say-- great question. That requires a cross-tabulation. I don't believe
we've delved that deep to that point. And so Mr. McKay said that we do need to look at that. It really depends
on, of course, if there were-- of the respondents, if the percentage was heavily weighted to first year of the
overall respondents, then yes. Then that would have an impact. But if it's not, then it would be negligible.
So you are correct. It's really just a math piece, and we can certainly do a deeper dive on that but as of yet
have not.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And Ms. Polege, given those numbers that we appear to have gone from a
20% vacancy down to 11%, I'm looking forward to your presentation on the 16th. I assume you will be going
into some of that. That's great. And just one more question. Do we ask similar questions-- I think we may
do some exit interviews-- do we ask similar questions of people when they're leaving? And does that give
us some helpful indication of what people-- why they're leaving and how they compare to these sorts of
questions?

PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yes. So the first thing I'd like to highlight is both the stay interview and the exit
interview are-- they're not mandatory. They depend on individuals wishing to participate. So I flag that
because with exit interviews, we certainly-- we have a higher participation rate, voluntary participation rate,
with the stay interviews than we do with the exit interviews. So I just want to qualify that because we have
a smaller sampling.
The questions are-- they're related, but I would not say they're the same, because, really, the initial stay,
and this is to Chair Davidson's earlier question, it's part of why we're looking at doing stay interviews on an
annual basis because the initial stay interview really is focused on your first 90 to 100 days.
And so what was your experience while you were being onboarded? How was your training? Do you have
the support you need? Very different questions than someone who's been here for five or seven years and
why have you elected to move on. So there are some pieces where we could draw a correlation, but I'd
say, generally speaking, no, I would consider them to be very different.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's all I've got. Thanks
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Director Guissinger. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Can you hear me? Sometimes this doesn't work well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, so these are very good numbers. And I really appreciate everybody from the
General Manager, your entire team, all the employees who really participated in this, and for all of their hard
work. It shows great leadership and that our efforts-- your efforts are certainly yielding good results and, in
some cases, excellent, great results.
I'm looking at this Employee Net Promoter Score. I echo my colleagues. It's not the greatest in terms of
what it even means, what it actually says. What my question is is can we just even modify the formula to
not make it the way that is and just make it an average of all of those scores? And would that be informative
or helpful?
PEGGY CATLIN: Will either John McKay or-- I see Ms. Johnson's hand is up. I think-- go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. So thank you, Director Rosenthal, for the question. And so
when you say modify the scores, we would not be altering how we derive a net promoter score, because
the whole notion behind it is how many promoters that you have.
But with that as a backdrop, as we talk about the satisfaction, as we indicated, or, more specifically, Mr.
McKay indicated during his presentation, that's why we're doing both of them, recognizing that this Board
agreed to the Net Promoter Score, and we would not be doing it absent of getting direction from the Board
collectively.
And so that's why we're going forward with the Employee Ownership Composite, because for all intents
and purposes, as we clearly see, if an individual has a perception that, OK, it's OK, it could be better,
generally, they're passive, meaning that they're not going to say what's wrong. And so basically, on a scale

whereby you could select a 7, if you had a scale from 1 to 10, a 7 would be viewed as being passive with a
Net Promoter Score. But the Ownership Composite Index Score is a lot different.
So I just wanted to provide that context whereby we would not be making any alterations in absentia of the
Board. And so at this juncture, we would be bringing forward a recommendation at a suitable time to the
Board relative to discontinuing usage of the Net Promoter Score. I hope that answers your question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Rosenthal, I think you were saying that rather than
having such heavily weighted scores, that being 1 through 6 is being negative and the neutral scores and
then the net-- or the promoter scores, that a lot of people tend to score things based on an average rather
than understanding that the actual math involved in deriving a Net Promoter Score. John, is that-- Mr.
McKay, am I correct on that? Director Rosenthal was suggesting more of an average. Is that right, Director
Rosenthal?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, then you wouldn't get that promoter score, though. That's what I was trying to
get to. It would not be a Net Promoter Score, so we couldn't qualify it as such.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I appreciate those answers. And I'll just move on to my next question. So in terms
of the way the survey was conducted, and I appreciate all the outreach, the number of events, the creativity
in trying to reach folks-- and so in terms of perhaps texting folks and maybe proactively saying, I'll send
everybody a text, and say, Would you like to opt in? If you do not, if we do not hear from you, then that
means you're not opting in, but at least we're reaching out by text.
I get a lot of texts from folks trying to raise money, and I just delete them or block them or something. But
I'm just sort of suggesting perhaps that might be a methodology to reach more people.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much for that suggestion, Director Rosenthal. But I think there's
a critically important nuanced aspect we have to keep in mind. As a front-line employee, one is not
supposed to have their cell phone at the ready. We'd be in precarious positions, whether or not if somebody
were responding to the text. Are we paying for them-- is that eligible work requirement and things of the
like? So we do not communicate in that form or fashion with the vast majority of our employees which
comprise 2/3 of the workforce here. So thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I understand that. Thank you. And then just an observation. I noticed the increase in
the number of employees over the past couple of years, and that is also admirable. I really appreciate that.
One question about the survey length and complexity itself, and I know that I do not like to take long surveys.
And then sometimes one third to halfway through it, I just give up and close it.
I'm wondering how long and how complex was the survey? And then, also, letting folks during the survey
how far along are you so people know, like, I'm getting near the end and that sort of thing.
JOHN MCKAY: Madam Chair, I can speak to that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please, John, go ahead.
JOHN MCKAY: So the survey in paper form was legal size. It was front and back. That was it. So in
electronic form, as you're going through, there is a page count on there. But as far as questions, there were
37 individual questions, some of them related to-- as GM CEO noted, this is an anonymous survey, but

individuals were able to identify their department of origin. That accounted for several questions, just sort
of identifying their work groups so that we can attribute specific responses to certain areas.
But 37 questions in all. There was one ranking question, and there was one open-ended question this year.
In previous years-- in last year's survey, there were five open-ended questions. And what we found was
that individuals were using each box to reiterate what they had just said. So if someone had had an ax to
grind of sorts, they would say it five times over. So this, there was one open-ended question that is optional.
No one has to provide any information. But the entire survey is intended to take between 7 and 10 minutes
in total.
And there are-- as I noted, the 19 different events at nine different facilities. The employees were there to
help people. The folks who are on my team were there, engaging with them. Members of the leadership
team were also there to encourage participation. And we really did meet people where they were. So as I
noted, this was done during the work selection period. So on one side of the room, the schedules are up,
and individuals are able to go and pick their routes that they would like to run or blocks or however that's
done.
And then on the other side of the room, that's where the table was set up for the employee survey. So this
is-- the reason this was done during the work selection period is we know that individuals have to come in
during that period. And so there are specific times set up for specific areas. So for commuter rail, their bid
is during this specific time. Or the front-line operators, they have to be at one of the operating facilities at
these times. And so we really know that we are making face-to-face contact to encourage individuals to
take the survey.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. McKay. Does that answer your question, Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It most certainly does. And then my last question-- and perhaps we can revisit this in
operations committee perhaps or elsewhere. The four strategic priorities, does the General Manager still
believe that they are still good, valid, representative of the realms that RTD does, occupies, pursues, et
cetera? Or should we be adding one, modifying one, or more changing the name? Does she still believe
that these are still good representative for our agency?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, if you'd like to respond to that? But I would just like to interject that that
might be a topic for our next Board retreat.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, but I would say recognizing that this Board adopted the four strategic priorities of
community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial success. Those are most
reflective of our transit agency, recognizing that we are interwoven to the fabric of the communities that we
serve. We provide vast value to the community, not only to the region, but to the state and at a national
level as a whole, recognizing that we are an economic driver, quite naturally, for this metropolitan region,
and then recognizing financial success. We are all fiduciaries of this transit agency because we have the
responsibility of being stewards of taxpayer dollars.
And quite naturally, without people comprising the agency, there would be no need for any of us. And so I
do believe those are clear-cut priorities for this organization. And if anything, the strategic initiatives, as we
look at the opinions, perceptions, and attitudes that we have been able to garner from this survey, that's
how those came to fruition last year. And recognizing the trajectory upon which we are on, I believe we're
on the precipice of change.

So I wholeheartedly believe that we should be steadfast in our efforts and work with our employees.
Because when we ask for people's opinions, if we do nothing with them, then it's for naught. And we will
clearly see the lack of engagement as we go forward. So thank you very much for the opportunity to offer
my opinion relative to what I believe is most prudent for the betterment of this organization. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, General Manager. And thank you, Madam Chair. Those are my questions
and comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Relative to the Employee Net Promoter Score, it is
obviously concerning that it went down rather than up, particularly when we see the composite score on
the individual measures having strong increase. And as it appears that as a result of that, there's a question,
and the Board report even says, that staff says it's really not a good measure.
And then in this presentation, Mr. McKay offers that at a conference he attended with transit agencies, there
was questioning as to the validity and worth of the Net Promoter Score. And Director Buzek climbed on that
bandwagon as well and indicated that he had concern.
Recognizing that it was at the insistence and urging of the prior Performance Committee Chair and with the
support of GM CEO that we adopted the net promoter score, I'm very concerned about saying, well, it went
down, so we're not sure it's a good measure. Well, maybe that's exactly the first index of a good measure,
is that it goes up and down. And I think we need to look at that.
More importantly, it has been noted that the Net Promoter Score is used amongst a number of transit
agencies. And also as significantly, it is very widely used in the private sector.
And if we are to compensate our General Manager CEO, based upon the compensation policy that we
have, comparing to the private sector, then I would urge extreme caution before we say, well, let's jettison
this Net Promoter Score measure. Because if we're going to reward somebody based upon the private
sector, then we need to judge them based upon the private sector. So I'm concerned about that.
And the other thing, a personal note, there's been reference to the Likert scale. Actually, Rensis Likert
created the Likert scale. I knew Rensis Likert. I worked with Rensis Likert at the Institute for Social Research
at the University of Michigan. And so I had occasion to learn about the Likert scale and how it was developed
and how it was utilized. So I just want to point that out for the record so that people will know.
The third and final comment that I have is that it is concerning-- it's not devastating, but it's concerning that
half of our represented employees do not feel safe at work, 49%, to be accurate. But that's half of our
represented employees who do not feel safe. I
Think it is incumbent upon us to-- and I've heard some comment to this effect, so I'm gilding the lily at this
point-- it is incumbent upon us to expend extra effort in creating a sense of safety and security, and not just
a sense but also providing the reality. But this, after all, is just a measure of the sense that people have.
They feel that they're safe. And I think that we need to address that strongly.
So they're not really questions there, three comments. And thank you for your patience in my espousing
them here. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And I think those are concerning, but I also am very
encouraged by the increased score. So with that-- all right, Chair Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, wait a minute. I see Chief People Officer Polege with her hand raised. Would you like
to comment on that particular piece?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, if I may. Thank you, Director Tisdale. And I just wanted to add, just for context,
having worked in private sector-- and a Net Promoter Score, in particular in hospitality, where I spent 11
years, is key. That has been for a very long time.
One of the things that you would also note, any of us who've completed surveys that are driven for Net
Promoter Scores, airlines, hospitality, hotels, they actually-- one of the areas, instead of potentially
changing, if that was a decision by the Board, would be then we have to educate so that people understand
that if you are rating a 7 or 8 as a passive, that's fine.
You don't want to change their rating, but you want to make sure that people understand because often
individuals will think, I think of 8 as a great score. But from a net promoter score, if it's 9 or 10, that's what
it's measuring. And so again, I just wanted to flag that you do see that, and it is part of that process to also
help educate all of the employees who would be completing it, which, from my perspective, obviously was
not here when the NPS was first rolled out.
But I haven't seen the level of, again, I'll say education that you would see in hospitality to help your survey
takers understand what it is that you're measuring. That is also an option that's available. And that's pretty
standard in the private sector when they use NPS to make sure it's understood. So I just wanted to add that
context to Director Tisdale's comments because the private sector does use it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Polege. That's very helpful. Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: I thought Director Davidson was next.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry, yes. I think Director Davidson took his hand down and put it back up. So,
Director, please, go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Yeah, sorry, I think my hand got pulled down. I'll keep it brief because this
is related to the NPS discussion and similar line of thinking, questioning as Director Tisdale. I think on the
customer side of things, NPS is very valuable, but it's also very lagging of other things that give you an
early look at things.
On the employee side of things, it would seem to me that the whole notion of NPS is how likely you are to
recommend. And so this would have a measurable impact on our retention and our recruitment. So it's
interesting to me that we are seeing a little bit of a decline, and I'm certainly inclined to track this metric over
time to see how it moves, especially when we're seeing some things that might lead the way to an increased
NPS or moving in the right direction right now.
But if we're seeing a decline in NPS, it would suggest that you have an increase in detractors on one hand,
or possibly just a drop in promoters on the other side. But it's my understanding that we've seen some
uptick in our recruitment and retention efforts. So that's where perhaps we're seeing a little bit of disconnect.

But I'm wondering if-- and it's OK if we don't have a lot of refined thoughts on this right now, but if Ms.
Polege or Ms. Johnson or Mr. McKay have any comments around the fact that we are seeing that little dip
in NPS, which I'm inclined to continue to measure over time, just to see how it's informing us. But then we're
having some increase in recruitment and retention. I'm just wondering if you could comment on what might
be driving that seeming disconnect.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. My response to that is, frankly, Chair Davidson, I would need to actually
do a deeper dive into the data because that requires some cross-tabulations. And also, if you look at even
willingness to recommend, there could be a tie between, depending on what group. If you're in an office job
and you're feeling 70-some percent safe from crime, you might be more willing to recommend.
We recommend people we know, friends, family, or otherwise often. And so when we're thinking of that
question, again, cross-tabulating, looking at the deeper dive, as Mr. McKay has said, if this is represented
staff, if there's a sharper decline-- if you would, say, bus operators, they're feeling less safe at work, they
potentially would be less likely to recommend someone they know and care about to come and work in that
work environment.
So I think there's a couple pieces there that right now I wouldn't have enough data at the ready to say this
would be the correlation. But it's certainly something that we would want to look at in that deeper dive.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Polege.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Now moving on to Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Ms. Chair. Sometimes I don't think we take time out to enjoy some good news.
And I think the overall numbers from the survey are very positive. So I think we all need to take deep breaths
and enjoy it. [CHUCKLES]
I've watched a lot of gymnastics, and sometimes they're told to enjoy the moment because it can be very
stressful from going one event to another event, which is very similar to what we do. We go from one
emergency to another emergency. So definitely enjoy the numbers. I'm really excited about that. But I have
two questions. Was this released to the public before this meeting, this survey?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair-- Madam Chair, I apologize, if I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, this is not. Our intent behind this was to ensure that we shared this with the Board.
And quite naturally, during the course of this week, we will be sharing this in different forums with
employees.

JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. For some reason, I thought I heard a reporter quote something from a survey,
and I wasn't sure if he was referring to this one or not. So I'm happy that we got to see this before it goes
to the public so we have-- we're at the ready to answer questions.
The one thing that does stick out to me, and it is concerning, is the representative employee, the drivers.
And the word mental health keeps starting to pop up in my mind. I know that the rookies get stuck with the
worst routes. And I understand the methodology. But this is something I think we really, really need to dig
in with the CBA.
I think we need to bring this up to see if we can come up with some other methodology to spread out the
driver assignments, using the fact that we have very low numbers on the safety. I think it was 51%. And
also, I couldn't imagine doing the same route over and over again, especially if it was like the 15L going
east. That definitely has to start dipping into the realm of mental health issues. I know I would be stressed
out.
So I know I'm being a little ambiguity there, but I think it's something we need to think about as we go into
those negotiations later in the year and talk with them and see if we can come up with some other strategy.
Does anybody have any comments on that? I know there was a comment, but did anybody have any
responses to that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, thank you. And just for a point of clarity, Director Lewis, I believe you were
commenting on a reference that was made earlier in the week relative to some information regarding the
work environment. There was organizational design and cultural assessment that was done that I
commissioned several months ago. And it seemed as if it made its way to the media. And that was the
reference there, as a point of clarity.
Recognizing seniority-based work is critical to collective bargaining units. This has been a conversation of
which I've been privy to on a national level. Quite naturally, recognizing that individuals work hard and
seniority is critical to all aspects of representative positions, that may be a difficult element to bargain about.
I do want to also clarify-- you mentioned, as you indicated, drivers. Those aren't the only representative
employees that we have at the organization. So oftentimes, we're quick to look at the operators to say, this
is what's happening. But also, you have to think about those that may be mechanics that are out swapping
out a vehicle at odd times of the night as well. So I just wanted to state that for the record, as we go forward,
that there's a myriad of different positions that also have owl service.
And then I'll round out by saying, interestingly enough, that individuals have an opportunity to pick their
work shifts. And you'd be surprised that there are individuals. And I know one operator in particular that has
bid on the 15 and does have 11 years of seniority. And some individuals do enjoy those routes. So it's
important to note that there's always a specific route or a line or a division or a work shift that may be
conducive for one's own personal lifestyle.
And so I just want to ensure that we have that understanding going forward, that people that are working
at owl shift, it may not be detrimental. But it is critically important, and your comment hasn't fallen upon deaf
ears relative to ensuring that there is a mechanism. So there are exploration aspects on a more national
level, recognizing the whole premise behind shift work. Thank you.
JAIME LEWIS: Thanks.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And Director Lewis, I was just going to point out that a number
of the stories that we've seen on social media and everything else that our people put out, when they
interview certain drivers, some of them are very, very attached to their route and the customers, in particular.
And they develop relationships. So to Ms. Johnson's point, there are both types of situations, I think. Do
you have another comment, Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. I just want to say that there might be some outliers there like that, but the numbers
speak for themselves, 51%. So it's definitely-- I'm hoping we have a strategy as we go into those discussions
later in the year, and hopefully we can sit down and come up with some kind of solution on that.
The last comment, and I just wanted to ask staff, if you had to give me one feedback, one thing that stuck
out from the survey, what would that be? This is for Charlene, Debra, and John.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Committee Chair Catlin, I would say, as indicated, we're on the precipice of
change. Employees that comprises our agency feel as if they can voice their concerns without fear of
retaliation or any trepidation or angst. And I believe that's critically important to any organization. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay, do you want to add anything to those takeaways?
JOHN MCKAY: The biggest eye opener for me was that dip in the three to five year camp. This was a
consistent-- let me go find what I'm talking about here. So this dip right here, so it goes from very high for
new, very new employees, and then sort of consistent across the 1 to 3 and then 5 to 10 or more year
bands. This 3 to five year group right here, I don't know that I have the data to support this, but I feel that
there is some lingering effects of COVID work time. That was something that I think we could look a little
bit further into.
I don't know. I don't know what that means or how we can help improve engagement within that group but
just more efforts focused on those folks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, we may see next year how that shifts a little bit. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I just felt I should clarify my position on the Net Promoter Score in
light of Director Tisdale's accusation that I'm jumping on a bandwagon with regard to that. We adopted that
a few years ago when we hired Trans-Pro as a consultant to talk about evaluating the agency and the
general manager.
But in practice over the years, I have come to believe that it doesn't accurately reflect performance. And
Director Davidson alluded to this as well. When you have to have a score of 9 or 10 to become a promoter,
it's hard to determine whether scores going up or down have to do with having fewer promoters or more
neutrals or detractors. So that's why I think it becomes problematic. That's all. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just quickly, my problem with the Net Promoter Score was exactly what Ms. Polege
pointed out, which is, people sometimes think an 8 is a nice score. That's pretty good. So I like the idea of
keeping it. I think it gives us some consistency, and it is another measure. I also think that I had not thought
of Ms. Polege's point, but letting people know what those scores mean could be really helpful. Thanks.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I share that, the education piece. And having just
completed yesterday after reviewing this particular survey-- which, by the way, I find to be very encouraging.
I'm really, really pleased with the results. But I had to fill out several questionnaires or surveys regarding
my recent hospital stay. That definitely clouds a person's perspective.
And I recognized by the survey instrument that they were using that they were trying to gauge net promoter
score. And I think, just having been through this, I changed my scores based on my understanding of what
a net promoter score is. And so I think the education piece is very important. I just had to opine on that
because I would have rated-- what would have been categorized as a detractor as opposed to even a
neutral or a promoter had I not had that basis of knowledge. Anyway, sorry for the opinion.
I don't see any other directors that have questions or comments. This was really, in my view, a really great
presentation and a very encouraging one. And this was-[PHONE ALERTS]
Whoops, I apologize. This was one of the first of what I consider the deep dives that this committee wants
to embark upon. And so I would encourage you as committee members, as well as other directors on the
Board, to provide feedback to us on other areas where we might take a deeper dive.
And I think we're going to be looking at that in September, and i can look to Mr. Kroll to clarify that. But one
of the areas that had come through on the Operation Safety and Security Committee was perhaps a deeper
dive into some of the data around our security piece. And I asked Chief Fitzgerald if he might be willing to
come to this committee with some of those data.
And any others that you all would think of, I would appreciate that we get those in the queue. Are there any
other matters to come before the committee? Yes, Dr. Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. A friendly reminder, at the end of this week, I will be out of
state for classes. So the next meeting I believe we have scheduled is July 10. I will not be here. I say that
for the purpose of quorum. I will clearly read my packet and correspond with you, Madam Chair, if that's
OK. Any concerns or questions that I won't be able to address because I will be absent from the meeting.
But I just wanted to give that heads up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that heads up, and please feel free to communicate in advance. The other
thing that we have to be aware of is-- excuse me a second. I just dropped a bunch of papers, and it'll take
me a minute to get it. I'm going to yield the floor to Director-- or to Jack Kroll for a moment, if you don't mind.
JACK KROLL: Sure. I'm happy to chime in here. The actual next meeting that we have on the books for the
Performance Committee is Monday, July 22. That's a little bit different time. It's going to be at 4:00 PM in
the afternoon. That meeting is really focused on getting the ball moving on the 360 evaluation and checking
in on the GM and CEO's performance assessment time frame. So that's the purpose of that meeting.
It was mentioned earlier as well about doing another deep dive. I think it would be good to have a plan for
when those might come forward and what topics. The next big survey results-- and John, correct me if I'm
wrong here, I believe are coming in September for the customer value or customer excellence and
community value survey results. So that's on your plate for September.

Typically, you all wouldn't meet in August, but we did poll for some availability in August. However, again,
the primary purpose of that August meeting again, is going to be to make progress on developing the 360
assessment tool.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. I was going to mention that, that we still have that process to work
through. And that might involve some directors participating in that activity. So you already mentioned the
next meeting, which is July. The regular meeting is July 22. Are there any other matters to come before this
committee?
Seeing none and with no further discussion or agenda items, this meeting is adjourned as of 9:52 AM.
Thank you all. And thank you for a really good discussion about what I see as a positive survey. Thank you.

