Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
May 23, 2013 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the Executive Committee to order at 12:03 p.m. In
attendance were Chair Anderson, 1st Vice-Chair Bagley, 2nd Vice-Chair Hoy,
Secretary Daly and Treasurer Walker.
Other Board members in attendance: Director James and Director Tobiassen (via
phone)
Others in attendance: General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue

II.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Anderson reviewed the Board agenda for the May 28th Board meeting. She
asked for any comments or questions.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the May 28 Board
agenda.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:


The motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent
A. Presentation of 2012 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and
Report to Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited

financial reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2012 as prepared by
Staff and audited by the District's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.


Recommended Action
B. RTD Drug and Alcohol Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the revised RTD Drug and Alcohol Policy mandated
by the Federal Transit Administration of the United States Department of
Transportation.
C. Approval of the Downtown Denver Circulator Fare-Free Service Plan
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the Downtown Denver Circulator bus service plan including
fare-free operations beginning in 2014.
D. August 2013 Service Plan
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed August 2013 Service Change
as summarized below and described in Attachment A on to public review and
comment.

III.

Other Matters
Other Matters:
 Director James expressed his appreciation to the Board members for their
review and responsiveness to the organizational membership update request.
 Director Daly shared that he had attended the Implementing PPP Workshop that
was held yesterday. General Manager Washington was one of the speakers and
did a great job. He found this workshop quite informative. Director James
asked General Manager Washington his opinion on if he is seeing a type of “CChange evolution” that is taking place. General Manager Washington responded
it depends. He noted there appears to be some fear/hesitation by the
international companies to deal with the government on PPP’s due to a lack of
knowledge pool within the government. RTD is sought after as speakers or for
knowledge due to our experience with PPP’s. Director James asked the General
Manager if he sees any strategic opportunity for RTD. General Manager
Washington responded that hopefully we can influence transportation on a
national level and the industry including APTA. He also shared that part of his
discussion has been creating a national priority project list where opportunities









IV.

could be leveraged. He believes the future financial opportunities will be a three
legged stool involving privates, government and others to have major impacts.
General Manager Washington briefed the Executive committee on some new
developments related to the I-225 project specific to the Anschutz campus
alignment. He shared there are numerous discussions that are in progress with
the city and the University. UC has expressed continued concerns on possible
impact of EMI and vibrations on its biomedical operation. They are reviewing
possible options for re-alignment but further information is needed to understand
the full impact of the re-alignment on ridership, costs, community, schedule and
other variables. RTD remains neutral on a number of these issues. He will come
back to brief the Board soon as more information around implications and
unintended consequences becomes available.
Chair Anderson shared with the Executive Committee a detailed request from
staff from Director Menten relative to the West Corridor and traffic counts.
General Manager Washington indicated that staff will prepare a response to
what information RTD has and will direct Director Menten to the appropriate
sources for where some of the other requested data may be obtained.
Director Hoy indicated the committee needs to be focusing on a succession plan
for the General Manager. General Manager commented this discussion has
already occurred and they have a succession plan in place.
Director Hoy would like to schedule a discussion around the Board travel policy.
He and Chair Anderson will meet to have an initial discussion.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

