Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on October 14,
2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Analyst

Date:

October 14, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
October 14, 2008 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Chair Bruce Daly, Vice-Chair Barbara Yamrick, Noel Busck, Daryl Kinton,
Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer

Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp,
Wally Pulliam, Neill Quinlan

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Carolyn Conover, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Paula Perdue, Bill Porter,
Scott Reed, Errol Stevens, John Tarbert, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bruce
Behnke (Veolia), Holman Carter (ATU 1001)

Call to Order:
I.

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 8:01 pm.

Recommended Action


Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding – Bruce Abel, Assistant General
Manager, Customer and Contracted Services introduced this item as a
housekeeping item.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to receive grant funding in the amount of
$1,732,500 from the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), Division
of Transportation Development and pay the required local match in an amount
up to $742,500.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on October 14,
2008
Page 2 of 4
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to forward this item to the October
21, 2008 Board Meeting agenda.

Second:

Director Busck seconded the
motion.

Vote On
Motion:


The motion passed unanimously.

Approval of January 2009 Service Changes – Bill Porter, Manager, Service
Planning/Scheduling presented this item. Mr. Porter reported that there were
seven public hearings attended by 41 members of the public. There were a
few modifications to the original proposal that were fairly minor. An
additional trip has been added to the HX in the morning.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 11, 2009 Service Change package as
revised on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$445,600, and , further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
Motion:

Director Yamrick made the motion
to forward this item to the October
21, 2008 Board Meeting agenda.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

Vote On
Motion:

II.

The motion passed unanimously.

Parking Management Update – Errol Stevens gave this update. He showed the signs
that will be displayed in the first four park-n-Rides (Thornton, Wagon Road, Stapleton,
and 40th/Pena), on November 1, 2008 in advance of the program implementation on
February 1, 2009. There will also be an information kiosk that will be in the passenger
boarding area that will have more detailed information on the program. Pay stations will
be installed at the four park-n-Rides a month before operation.
Director Ruchman asked if information will be available on the website. Mr. Stevens
replied that information on the parking management program will be posted and the
reserved space program will be administered by his administrative assistant.
Director Busck expressed his concern about people using the park-n-Ride lots for other
purposes other than transit use.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on October 14,
2008
Page 3 of 4

Director Kinton expressed concern about public perception about paying for parking. Mr.
Steven said that this will be a learning experience for everyone. Director Martinez
suggested having volunteers at the park-n-Ride to assist customers as the parking
management system starts up. Staff responded that they plan to do this.
III.

Pilot Pass Program for Housing Authorities – Bruce Abel spoke to this item. Staff is
suggesting two alternatives, using the price point of the college pass program or utilizing
the existing reduced fare program. Director Ruchman spoke about not spending a lot of
staff resources on this program. Director McMullen was not very supportive of this
proposal. Director Yamrick said she was having trouble seeing the difference between
this pilot program and the Neighborhood Eco Pass program which the Board just put a
moratorium on.
Director Busck spoke passionately about why this should be a pilot program and spoke
about sitting down with housing organizations and seeing if a pilot program could work
that would not be subsidized by RTD. Director Martinez echoed Director Busck’s
sentiment and spoke about how using a pass program could get people to move to a
monthly pass program and not remain cash paying customers.
Director Tayer thanked staff for their response.
scenario, he is supportive of it.

As long as it is not an either/or

Director Ruchman made a motion for staff to start the pilot program and give the Board
an update after 18 months.
Director Busck seconded the motion.
IV.

Free Rides for the Military – Bruce Abel spoke to the item. He wanted to get a sense of
the Committee if the Board wanted to continue the program into 2009.
Motion:

Director Yamrick made the motion
to extend free rides for the military
through the 2009 calendar year and
forward this item to the October 21,
2008 Board Meeting agenda.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

Vote On
Motion:

V.

Quarterly Reports – Contracted Services

The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on October 14,
2008
Page 4 of 4


ADA – Bruce Abel reported that access-a-Ride ridership is up 4% and service hours
are up to 3% so productivity has improved. Access-a-Cab is growing after years of
decline. Director Martinez brought up the issue that he is still receiving complaints
regarding access-a-Ride and he was surprised that he is still hearing these issues.
Director Kinton spoke to the improvement in the cab service and that the service is
running much better.
Director Kinton would like an update on the “Welcome to RTD” signs at the light rail
stations at the next committee meeting.



Fixed Route – Carolyn Conover, Manager Competitive Services, reviewed the
second quarter for accidents and that there were two contractors (Veolia and
Laidlaw) that did not meet the standards. The performance goals will be changed
for next year to “preventable accidents.” Laidlaw and Veolia did not meet their
goals for miles between road calls. The contractors are now doing investigation to
see if these are really road calls or if it is operator error. RTD is in the process of
buying back some of these road calls. Director Daly felt the contractors should be
held liable even if it is operator error. Veolia did not meet the goal for operator
complaints. Ms. Conover said that Veolia has a database for tracking the
complaints. 40% of the complaints are coming off three major routes. Veolia is
working hard to address these problems.

VI.

Longmont Staffing Update – This report was included in the Board packet. There were
no questions on the update.

VII.

Fare Inspection Program Update – Dave Genova and John Tarbert presented this item.
Last month a memo was sent to the Board regarding an increase of fare inspection on
rail. In regards to bus fare enforcement, plainclothes police officers have been riding the
buses and tracking fare evasion. At this time, they have been gathering statistics and
next week they will start the enforcement. The routes being targeted are the 15, 15L,
16, 16L, 30 and 31.
In regards to rail, Director Martinez spoke about different fare inspection tactics
customers use.
Director McMullen spoke about the need for a more systematic fare inspection system.

VIII.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

IX.

Next Meeting Date - This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Service
Committee has been tentatively moved to Thursday, November 13, 2008 at 5:30
p.m.

X.

Adjournment - Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 9:10 p.m.

