Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
Second Vice Chair – Noel Busck, District K
Secretary – William G. McMullen, District E
Treasurer – John Tayer, District O
Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bill Christopher, District J
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill Elfenbein, District A

Daryl Kinton, District H
Wally Pulliam, District L
O’Neill P. Quinlan, District G
Dave Ruchman, District M
Barbara Yamrick, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, April 15, 2008 at 5:30PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
James Campbell, Train Operator – 32 Years of Service

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
THANK YOU.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Christopher
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Pulliam
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Quinlan
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Quinlan
E-470 – Director Busck
ACED – Director Busck
DRCOG-Director Elfenbein
Denver Union Station Advisory – Director Chacon
Northwest Parkway-Chair Kemp and Director Pulliam
Pension Committee - Director Pulliam
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Christopher
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF MARCH 18, 2008

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A.

Approval of Director District Boundary Changes
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve a change to the boundaries of Director Districts J, L, M and N
as a result of changes to the boundaries of several Jefferson County voter
precincts, as required by RTD’s enabling legislation [CRS 32 -9-111(2)].

B.

Transfer of Funds for the East Metro SAU Project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $250,000 from the Market Street
Station Atrium Glass project and $88,370 from the Low Value Furniture and Equipment
account into the East Metro Supply Air Unit (SAU) Replacement project. Both the
funds being transferred and the project funds are included in the 2008 RTD budget.

C.

Microsoft Enterprise Agreement (Software – 3 years)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend
the contract with Insight for a three (3) year software Enterprise Agreement with
Microsoft in the amount of $ 266,589.94 and for a total contract value not to exceed
$1,550,000. Insight was chosen using the State of Colorado award in December
2007, which the state competitively bid themselves. Additionally, it takes advantage
of the state’s buying power.

D.

Contract Award – Oracle DBA Support
It is recommended by the Financial and Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract in the amount of $180,000 for Personal Services for an IT Oracle Database
Administrator (DBA)(18DJ001). The contract is to be awarded to Sol-IT following a
competitive review of twelve submitted proposals. The contract runs for a period of
one year with two additional one-year options. This has been determined to be a
personal service contract by Legal.
The contract allows for an initial year plus two one-year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed $180,000. The
contract would begin on May 1, 2008.

E.

IX.

Central Parking Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a three year contract for 2008,
2009 & 2010 with Central Parking for $1,258,226.00, to supply ticket sellers for all
major sporting and other special events. In addition to the three year contract is an
option for two, one year extensions through 2011 and 2012 for an additional total of
$896,121.20. The grand total for a five year contract is $2,154,347.20 from 20082012. The District will have the flexibility to go up and down with the number of ticket
sellers per special events, and the District will have the flexibility to specify the events
for which ticket sellers will be provided.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
F.

Approval of Contract Amendment for 30% Preliminary Engineering (PE) for Denver
Union Station
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a Contract Amendment with
Parsons Brinkerhoff (PB) for the 30% Preliminary Engineering (PE) work related to
Denver Union Station in the amount of $5,200,000. The total current contract
amount, including previous amendments, is $18,396,279. This amendment will
increase the contract value to $23,596,279. This amendment is required to
finalize the 30% PE necessary to provide enough information to the Master
Developer, Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) and proposed Design
/Builder to provide a Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP).
It is also recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,320,000 of the
$5,200,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding
for the contract amendment. The remainder of the funds are in the DUS
Budget/RTD Budget in 2008. This action will accelerate funding programmed in
the DUS Budget for 2009 to allow for completion of the 30% PE. The
Contingency Reserve will be replenished from DUS project funds in the 2008
Budget Amendment.

G.

Approval of Contract Amendment for the Gold Line Corridor for Additional
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that RTD’s
contract with CH2M Hill for the Gold Line Corridor DEIS/FEIS/Basic
Engineering/Advanced Basic Engineering be amended to add $1,918,000 to the
contract amount in order for the consultant to perform Preferred Alternative
Refinements (PARs) to the evaluation of the Preferred Alternative (PA ) made
necessary as a result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific Railroad. The
total current contract amount, including previous amendments, is $14,240,607.
This amendment will increase the contract value to $16,157,774.
It is also recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,290,000 of the
$1,918,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding
for the contract amendment. The remainder of the funds are in the Gold
Line/RTD Budget in 2008. This action will accelerate funding programmed in
2009 to allow for completion of the engineering and environmental work. The
Contingency Reserve will be replenished from the Gold Line Corridor project funds
in the 2008 Budget Amendment.

H.

Approval of Contract Amendment for the North Metro Corridor for Additional
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that RTD’s
contract with URS for the North Metro Corridor DEIS/Basic Engineering be
amended to add $1,672,125 to the contract amount in order for the consultant to
perform refinements to the evaluation of the preferred alternative made necessary
as a result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific Railroad. The total current
contract amount, including previous amendments, is $5,210,495.
This
amendment will increase the contract value to $6,882,620. Available funding for
this contract amendment is in the 2008 FasTracks Adopted Budget for the North
Metro project.

I.

Approval of Contract Amendment for the East Corridor for Additional Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the contract
with PBS&J for the East Corridor Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and
engineering work to be amended to add $2,998,723 to the contract amount in
order for the consultant to perform refinements to the evaluation of the preferred
alternative made necessary as a result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific
Railroad. The total current contract amount, including previous amendments, is
$12,149,780 (includes East Corridor EIS and Central Corridor Extension
Environmental Evaluation (EE) as originally budgeted). This amend ment will
increase the contract value to $15,148,503. Funds are available in the 2008
East Corridor Adopted Budget.

J.

Approval of Contract Amendment for Environmental (EIS) and Engineering Work for a
New Site for the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the contract
with URS for the Northwest Rail Environmental Evaluation (EE) and Preliminary
Engineering (PE) that includes the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility be
amended to add $750,000 to the contract amount in order for the consultant to
perform refinements to the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility preferred
alternative evaluation made necessary as a result of the negotiations with the
Union Pacific Railroad. The total current contract amount, including previous
amendments, is $6,992,802. This amendment will increase the contract value to
$7,742,882. Funding for this increase is included in the 2008 FasTracks
Adopted Budget for the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility.

K.

Approval to Initiate the FasTracks Bus Maintenance Facility Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a transfer of $3,420,000
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to begin work on the Bus Maintenance
Facility project starting in 2008. This work was originally planned later in the
FasTracks Program. The Contingency Reserve will be replenished from the Bus
Maintenance Facility Project funds in the 2008 Budget Amendment. This work
would include environmental evaluation of up to two new bus maintenance facility
sites, preliminary engineering, and preparation of design-build documents. A
recommendation for consulting services for preparation of preliminary engineering
and design-build documents will be presented at a subsequent meeting for Board
approval.

L.

Recommendation for Adoption of Plan and Trust Documents for RTD Defined
Contribution Salaried Pension Plan
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors (the Board) adopt the attached Plan and Trust documents for the formation of
the RTD Defined contribution Salaried Pension Plan and that the effective date of the
plan be January 1, 2008.

M.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2008 CONCERNING APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES
TO THE ATU 1001 PENSION TRUST AND THE ATU 1001 HEALTH AND WELFARE
TRUST
It is recommended that the Board of Directors pass the attached resolution to confirm
the status of RTD employees appointed by RTD to serve on the RTD/ATU 1001
Pension Trust and Health & Welfare Trusts (the “Union Trusts”) as RTD employees for
purposes of coverage under the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act, and the provide
for the appointment of three salaried trustees to serve on the ATU Pensions and Health
and Welfare Trusts.

N.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2008 TO SUPPORT THE GOVERNOR’S
TRANSPORTATION FINANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION PANEL REPORT AND FUNDING
THRESHOLD RECOMMENDATIONS

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

XIII.

ADJOURN

