Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 15, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
April 15, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and Tayer arrived later.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Lloyd Mack, AGM for rail operations presented James Campbell, train operator, who completed
1 month shy of 33 years with RTD. James stated it has been a privilege working at RTD and
he will immensely miss the employee community. He has fond memories of everyone he has
come in contact with but especially his passengers.
Director Daly stated that he had worked with Jim at the Alameda Division in the mid-70s and
that Jim has racked up quite a reputation with 13 years participation in the RTD Roadeo, as an
instructor, and as someone who was genuinely concerned about the company.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Russell Greear, Denver, referred to HR 3195 bill which is in the US House and Senate. This
bill includes the mentally disabled in the public accommodations requirements. Russell also
offered to survey the districts for any Board member who may want an “informal ambassador”
to check things out (i.e. condition of benches, shelters, etc) and report on his findings.
Vicki Harris with the Campaign for Responsible Development (CRD) stated that she supported
standards providing families with jobs at Denver Union Station.
Molly Gallegos, member of FRESC which is a partner with Campaign for Responsible
Development (CRD) expressed support for local businesses at Denver Union Station. She
yielded the rest of her time to Bill Bates, CRD.
Bill Bates, CRD, member of Labors Union Local 20, spoke in favor of good jobs that would
include benefits such as health care and jobs that have a background in certified apprentice
programs that promote safety on the job. He yielded the rest of his time to Jim Bell.
Jim Bell, representing Section 8, low income housing section of the CRD, expressed support
for accessible housing for low income people at Denver Union Station. He yielded his time to
Blake Pendergrass.
Blake Pendergrass, FRESC, CRD, serves as point of contact between Campaign for Responsible

Housing Coalition and Denver Union Station decision makers. He yielded his time to Holman
Carter, ATU President.
Holman Carter, ATU President, supports the efforts of the Campaign for Responsible
Development and yielded his time to Enmar Hilo.
Enmar Hilo, CRD, read a prepared statement in support of affordable housing and jobs at
Denver Union Station. The campaign is a broad range of supporters concerned about affordable
housing, jobs, environmental sustainability and opportunities that support the broad
community, not just a few well connected developers. In the coming months RTD will be
asked to support an amendment to the DUS Master Plan. The CRD urges RTD to reflect on
existing priorities and the priorities of the coalition to (1) have a successful transit hub (2)
make it environmentally sustainable and (3) make it socially and economically sustainable.
CRD seeks meaningful dialogue and though they have spoken with a number of interested
parties, what has yet to happen is clear commitment. They seek RTD support on engaging this
coalition in a meaningful dialogue.
Michael Moore, Denver, is an access-a-Ride user who shared his experiences of being on the
van where the driver has driven him around town even though he was within minutes of his
drop off point. He asked for some logical thinking in the scheduling process and how RTD can
improve the scheduling and routing process. Chair Kemp requested Cal Marsella’s team look at
this situation and report back to the Board.
Robert Damphousse, talked to the inaccuracies and lack of user friendliness that the RTD
website has, especially the trip planner. He stated that Google was talking to organizations
about working with them to create a more user friendly system. Phil Washington shared that
RTD is already working with Google and plan to launch a pilot within the next few weeks. Phil
Washington was asked to respond back to Mr. Damphousse.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes or comments to the Committee reports.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF March 18, 2008
MOTION:
Director Martinez moved for the adoption of the March 18, 2008
regular board meeting minutes.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0
against. Director McMullen had stepped away.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. DUS Update
Cal Marsella, General Manager shared that they had met with the DUS EOC to discuss lots
of variables and alternatives. They will continue to have these meetings on a regular basis
with hopes to have a transit approach sometime this summer. This plan will need to be
approved before the West Corridor.
2. Presentation to Transportation Legislative Caucus
Cal Marsella provided an update on FasTracks to the elected officials at the Statehouse.

The presentation went well and was supported by Directors Kemp, Pulliam and Yamrick.
3. Update on Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
RTD is continuing to look at relocation alternatives. Right now the primary focus is on the
Platte Bus Facility which will necessitate a relocation of the bus facilities. Cal is targeting
mid-summer to provide a recommendation.
4. Presentation to the Connecticut Dept of Transportation
Last week, Cal Marsella made a presentation to the agency where he started his career.
They are interested in emulating RTD’s success and the information he presented was well
received. He shared how the RTD success came with a lot of government, community and
municipality support.
5. Meeting with Urban Land Conservancy
Cal Marsella made a presentation to this group which is concerned about affordable
housing. He reviewed the corridors and where we are as it relates to high density
development.
6. Meeting with US elected officials (US 36 corridor) and staff on BRT
Cal Marsella, staff, Directors Kemp, Tayer, Pulliam, and Christopher met with the US 36
corridor officials to discuss a universal agreement that might be feasible and financially
acceptable for BRT and the possible expansion of the HOV lanes.
Director Quinlan queried about the status of the New York money. Cal Marsella explained
that New York had been accepted by the FTA for monies for a project in Manhattan but
their legislature rejected it and they no longer qualify. The US 36 corridor group will look
to possible re-submittal for available funds.
Chair Kemp and Director Tayer thanked Cal and staff for meeting with the US 36 corridor
and the incremental progress that is being made.
7. Other Matters
Director McMullen shared that he took a train to the NCAA Frozen Four event with a
numbers of tourists and visitors who were having a first time experience on the light rail.
He had the opportunity to ask them about their experience and they reported a positive
experience with the light rail and that it was easy to use.
VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Christopher moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-E.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Approval of Director District Boundary Changes
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of

Directors approve a change to the boundaries of Director Districts J, L, M and N
as a result of changes to the boundaries of several Jefferson County voter
precincts, as required by RTD’s enabling legislation [CRS 32 -9-111(2)].
B.

Transfer of Funds for the East Metro SAU Project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $250,000 from the Market Street
Station Atrium Glass project and $88,370 from the Low Value Furniture and Equipment
account into the East Metro Supply Air Unit (SAU) Replacement project. Both the
funds being transferred and the project funds are included in the 2008 RTD budget.

C.

Microsoft Enterprise Agreement (Software – 3 years)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend
the contract with Insight for a three (3) year software Enterprise Agreement with
Microsoft in the amount of $ 266,589.94 and for a total contract value not to exceed
$1,550,000. Insight was chosen using the State of Colorado award in December
2007, which the state competitively bid themselves. Additionally, it takes advantage
of the state’s buying power.

D.

Contract Award – Oracle DBA Support
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract in the amount of $180,000 for Personal Services for an IT Oracle Database
Administrator (DBA) (18DJ001). The contract is to be awarded to Sol-IT following a
competitive review of twelve submitted proposals. The contract runs for a period of
one year with two additional one-year options. This has been determined to be a
personal service contract by Legal.
The contract allows for an initial year plus two one-year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed $180,000. The
contract would begin on May 1, 2008.

E.

IX.

Central Parking Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a three year contract for 2008,
2009 & 2010 with Central Parking for $1,258,226.00, to supply ticket sellers for all
major sporting and other special events. In addition to the three year contract is an
option for two, one year extensions through 2011 and 2012 for an additional total of
$896,121.20. The grand total for a five year contract is $2,154,347.20 from 20082012. The District will have the flexibility to go up and down with the number of ticket
sellers per special events, and the District will have the flexibility to specify the events
for which ticket sellers will be provided.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Chair Kemp stated he would entertain a motion to move and vote action items F-I as one item
to vote. The following motion was made.

MOTION:

Director Quinlan made the motion to approve
Items F-I as one action.

Directors Ruchman and Christopher seconded the
motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, and Tayer) and 1
against (Yamrick).
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

F.

Approval of Contract Amendment for 30% Preliminary Engineering (PE) for Denver
Union Station
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a Contract Amendment with
Parsons Brinkerhoff (PB) for the 30% Preliminary Engineering (PE) work related to
Denver Union Station in the amount of $5,200,000. The total current contract
amount, including previous amendments, is $18,396,279. This amendment will
increase the contract value to $23,596,279. This amendment is required to
finalize the 30% PE necessary to provide enough information to the Master
Developer, Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) and proposed Design
/Builder to provide a Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP).
It is also recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,320,000 of the $5,200,000
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding for the contract
amendment. The remainder of the funds is in the DUS Budget/RTD Budget in 2008.
This action will accelerate funding programmed in the DUS Budget for 2009 to allow
for completion of the 30% PE. The Contingency Reserve will be replenished from DUS
project funds in the 2008 Budget Amendment.

G.

Approval of Contract Amendment for the Gold Line Corridor for Additional
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that RTD’s
contract with CH2M Hill for the Gold Line Corridor DEIS/FEIS/Basic
Engineering/Advanced Basic Engineering be amended to add $1,918,000 to the
contract amount in order for the consultant to perform Preferred Alternative
Refinements (PARs) to the evaluation of the Preferred Alternative (PA) made
necessary as a result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific Railroad. The
total current contract amount, including previous amendments, is $14,240,607.
This amendment will increase the contract value to $16,157,774.
It is also recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,290,000 of the
$1,918,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding
for the contract amendment. The remainder of the funds is in the Gold Line/RTD
Budget in 2008. This action will accelerate funding programmed in 2009 to allow
for completion of the engineering and environmental work. The Contingency
Reserve will be replenished from the Gold Line Corridor project funds in the 2008
Budget Amendment.

H.

Approval of Contract Amendment for the North Metro Corridor for Additional
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that RTD’s
contract with URS for the North Metro Corridor DEIS/Basic Engineering be
amended to add $1,672,125 to the contract amount in order for the consultant to

perform refinements to the evaluation of the preferred alternative made necessary
as a result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific Railroad. The total current
contract amount, including previous amendments, is $5,210,495.
This
amendment will increase the contract value to $6,882,620. Available funding for
this contract amendment is in the 2008 FasTracks Adopted Budget for the North
Metro project.
I.

Approval of Contract Amendment for the East Corridor for Additional Environmental
Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the contract
with PBS&J for the East Corridor Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and
engineering work to be amended to add $2,998,723 to the contract amount in
order for the consultant to perform refinements to the evaluation of the preferred
alternative made necessary as a result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific
Railroad. The total current contract amount, including previous amendments, is
$12,149,780 (includes East Corridor EIS and Central Corridor Extension
Environmental Evaluation (EE) as originally budgeted). This amendment will
increase the contract value to $15,148,503. Funds are available in the 2008
East Corridor Adopted Budget.

MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to approve
Items J and K as one action.
Director Quinlan seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick)
and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

J.

Approval of Contract Amendment for Environmental (EIS) and Engineering Work for a
New Site for the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the contract
with URS for the Northwest Rail Environmental Evaluation (EE) and Preliminary
Engineering (PE) that includes the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility be
amended to add $750,000 to the contract amount in order for the consultant to
perform refinements to the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility preferred
alternative evaluation made necessary as a result of the negotiations with the
Union Pacific Railroad. The total current contract amount, including previous
amendments, is $6,992,802. This amendment will increase the contract value to
$7,742,882. Funding for this increase is included in the 2008 FasTracks
Adopted Budget for the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility.

K.

Approval to Initiate the FasTracks Bus Maintenance Facility Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a transfer of $3,42 0,000
from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to begin work on the Bus Maintenance
Facility project starting in 2008. This work was originally planned later in the
FasTracks Program. The Contingency Reserve will be replenished from the Bus
Maintenance Facility Project funds in the 2008 Budget Amendment. This work

would include environmental evaluation of up to two new bus maintenance facility
sites, preliminary engineering, and preparation of design-build documents. A
recommendation for consulting services for preparation of preliminary engineering
and design-build documents will be presented at a subsequent meeting for Board
approval.
L.

Recommendation for Adoption of Plan and Trust Documents for RTD Defined
Contribution Salaried Pension Plan
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors (the Board) adopt the attached Plan and Trust documents for the formation of
the RTD Defined contribution Salaried Pension Plan and that the effective date of the
plan be January 1, 2008.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
recommendation for adoption of plan and trust
documents for RTD Defined Contribution Salaried
Pension Plan
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick)
and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

M.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2008 CONCERNING APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES
TO THE ATU 1001 PENSION TRUST AND THE ATU 1001 HEALTH AND WELFARE
TRUST
It is recommended that the Board of Directors pass the attached resolution to confirm
the status of RTD employees appointed by RTD to serve on the RTD/ATU 1001
Pension Trust and Health & Welfare Trusts (the “Union Trusts”) as RTD employees for
purposes of coverage under the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act, and the provide
for the appointment of three salaried trustees to serve on the ATU Pensions and Health
and Welfare Trusts.
MOTION:
Director Martinez made the motion to approve the
resolution concerning the appointment of trustees
to the ATU 1001 Pension Trust and the ATU
1001 Health and Welfare Trust.
Director Chacon seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director McMullen asked when the 3 appointees
would be made. Cal Marsella responded within a
week.

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick)

and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.
N.

RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2008 TO SUPPORT THE GOVERNOR’S
TRANSPORTATION FINANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION PANEL REPORT AND FUNDING
THRESHOLD RECOMMENDATIONS
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Elfenbein made the motion to approve
support for the Governor’s Transportation Finance
and Implementation Panel report and Funding
Threshold recommendations.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.
Director Christopher expressed support of the
Resolution in general but felt the $1.5 billion
annually was too aggressive.

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 1
against (Christopher).
Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director Yamrick shared that she had recently attended the APTA Quality Control meeting in
Austin and confirmed that the peer request for a customer service audit has been received.
Chair Kemp welcomed Director Kinton back after his recent surgery.

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:20 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, April 15, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bill Bell
James Campbell
Rick Clarke
Ron Dodsworth
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
Dave Genova
Marla Lien
OTHERS PRESENT:
Ed Colby, URS
Joe Racosky, URS
Jay Aigner, Spectrum
Russell Greear
Jim & Ginger Campbell
Molly Gallegos, FRESC
Tom & Linda Wombot, CPRC
Vicki Harris, CRD
Bill Bates, CRD
Jim Bell, CRD
Blake Pendergrass, FRESC
Holman Carter, ATU President
Enmar Hilo, CRD
Michael Moore
Robert Damphousse

Lloyd Mack
Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Liz Rao
Scott Reed
Daria Serna

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District D
District C
District J
District N
District A
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

Errol Stevens
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Greg Yates

