Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

June 16, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16,
2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd Vice-Chair
Cohen, Secretary Malpiede, Treasurer Bagley
(via phone)
Subject:

Other Board Members

Directors
Tobiassen

Deadwyler,

James,

Anderson,

Present:

I.

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington

Visitor:

Claudia Folska

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:12
p.m.

June Board Meeting Review
General Manager Washington stated that per the last Executive Committee
meeting, they had decided to only go over the items on the unanimous
consent that the Board members may have a question about. He asked if
there were any questions. Under the recommended action, he referred to
the issue with the amended 2011 Budget that had arisen around the Civil
Rights Division and provided information on why he thinks these are critical
positions; that Civil Rights is a critical provision for the FTA approvals; Title
VI which covers such things as ADA compliance, fare changes, EEO, and
requires an assessment of impact to the community; all of these are
essential to getting the FFGA.
Director Deadwyler responded that her concerns were on the lack of a
strategic plan from the Civil Rights Division on their structure and where
they are going? What are the objectives, benchmarks and deliverables from
this newly created Division? She needs to see the big picture for Civil Rights
before blindly approving funding for headcount that has not been properly
justified. She has been requesting this information for some time and

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6
expressed her frustration in not having yet received it. General Manager
Washington requested her to put her request in writing to him and he will
make sure she gets a response. Staff is usually responsive on most issues.
Director Cohen asked some clarifying questions around the difference
between the old EEO group and this newly established group. He asked the
General Manager to articulate what was his comprehensive vision for this
group.
General Manager Washington responded:
 The Civil rights Division is a division under the Administration
Department. Title VI now has new regulations that have become
bigger in scope
 The EEO function was under the Communications Department which
he has always disagreed with. This needed to be moved out. This
function has saved RTD from numerous lawsuits.
 Small Business Office-deals with compliance and has grown due to
the FasTracks expansion project. As the system grows, you have to
grow in this area.
 Added headcount for WIN. They are attempting to be proactive and
take a preventive approach rather than reactionary. He envisions the
Civil Rights Division to provide an umbrella of duties for this agency.
Director Malpiede commented regarding her perspective that this helps with
the transparency and inclusiveness.
Director Anderson expressed that the Board should be cognizant of treating
the staff with respect. Director Deadwyler responded with her concerns
that respect should be a two way street and as a Director, she does not feel
she has been given proper respect from either staff or her fellow Board
members. Chair Kemp commented that the Board has always worked well
together since he has been on the Board.
Chair Kemp expressed concern about attendance for the Board meeting on
June 21st and if we would have enough votes to pass the budget. After
some discussion, the Executive team voted to remove the budget from this
agenda and to have a special Board meeting on June 28 to approve the
budget.
Motion:

Chair Kemp made the motion to remove
the 2011 amended budget from the
agenda and to bring it back at a special
Board meeting on June 28.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6
Discussion:

Chair Kemp requested the General
Manager and staff to work directly with
Director Deadwyler on understanding her
issues and needs with the budget and to
make sure her questions had been
properly answered. This includes
providing information on the strategic
direction for the Civil Rights Division.
General Manager Washington indicated
they would be providing information to
the full Board in their packets and that he
would follow up with Director Deadwyler.

Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move
the agenda forward to the full Board for
the June 21 meeting excluding the 2011
amended budget.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:


The motion passed.

Unanimous Consent

Authorization for Contract Amendment with White Construction
for Elati Maintenance Facility
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee,
to execute all documents necessary to award a contract amendment
not to exceed $200,000 to White Construction Group for additional
enhancements to the Elati Light Rail Maintenance Facility. This action
would increase the current contract amount of $5,357,417.64,
including previously awarded change orders, to a new contract total
of $5,557,417.64. Funding for this contract amendment is included
in the 2011 Proposed Amended Budget for the FasTracks Light Rail
Maintenance Facility Project.

I-225 Property Acquisition Phase I
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution
certifying properties as necessary for construction of the I-225
Segment 1 Light Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all
requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.

RTD-CCD East Colfax Transit Project Intergovernmental
Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
documents necessary to complete an Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) between RTD and the City and County of Denver (CCD) for
RTD’s participation in the East Colfax Transit Project (ECTP).
Funding for this project is included in the 2011 Proposed Amended
Budget through a $2 million grant from the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA), with $1 million local match provided by CCD.
There would be no net financial impact to RTD.

Recommendation for Transfer of Funds from RTD to Denver
Union Station Project Authority
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that:
(1) RTD enter into an Agreement to obtain FASTER grant funds from
the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) in the anticipated
amount of $4 million for use in the historic Denver Union Station
(DUS) which may be administered in conjunction with Denver Union
Station Project Authority (DUSPA); (2) transfer funds from
16 Chestnut LLC or a related entity for construction of a roadway
and pedestrian access at 16th Street and the Consolidated Main Line
(CML) to DUSPA; and (3) grant the General Manager authority to
execute any agreements or amendments necessary for this purpose,
which may provide for advance of grant funds prior to receipt from
CDOT and may provide transfer of funds from RTD to DUSPA.


Oracle ERP Developer Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his delegate, to execute all documents necessary to
award a new 3 year contract, for the amount not to exceed of
$495,000, for Oracle ERP Developer services to Access Data
Consulting Corporation, contract # 11DC001. The contract is being
brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per
RTD Resolution No.27, Series of 1985.



Approval of August 2011 Service changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the August 21, 2011 Service
Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in a net annualized cost of approximately $272,000, and,
further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is
impacted by these changes.

 Recommended Action


Authorization to Approve IGA for funding for the Broadway/Euclid
Transportation Improvements in Boulder
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to enter into an

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) to partially fund the transit
related improvements associated with the pedestrian/transportation
improvement project located on Broadway at Euclid with the City of
Boulder in the amount not-to-exceed $570,000. Funding for the
project is included in the 2011 Proposed Amended Budget.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the transfer of
$570,000 from the Broadway & Euclid capital project in the 2011
Proposed Amended Budget to expense to facilitate proper accounting
for the IGA.

II. Board Organizational Membership
Director James presented this item. He and Director Tobiassen had been
tasked as an Ad Hoc committee to review the process for adding new
organizations that would be deemed appropriate for RTD to have membership
in based around a number of factors. He asked the Executive Committee to
consider the proposal and determine the appropriate next steps. After a few
requested changes from Director Tayer, this document will go to the full Board
for their review and comments. Director James would like to request feedback
directly to him from the Board members as he will not be at the June 28
special Board meeting. Director James would like to target approval of this
document from the Board during the June timeframe so a line item can be
added to the 2012 budget for individual memberships in the July budget
cycle.
Director Cohen requested a list of the current organizations that we belong to.
General Manager Washington will provide.
III. Re-Districting Update
Chair Kemp shared that he and Paula Perdue had met with the members of the
planning team (Van Meter, Chris Quinn and Bill Sirois) regarding the upcoming
re-districting process. This is required per the RTD Act following the US
Census and must be complete by March 15, 2012 or the state legislature will
make that decision. He is planning to appoint a 2-member Board team to
work with the 3 member staff plus the Executive Manager of the Board. This
team will work with each of the Board members to make sure they understand
their requests. Recommendations will be brought before the full Board for a
vote hopefully in January 2012.
Chair Kemp stated he hope to assign Board members who do not have a dog
in the hunt.
IV. Other Matters
 Director Malpiede requested a review of the student parking at RTD sites
for graduate students. She indicated that graduate students are
encouraged to take no more than 6 hours since their classes are very
intensive. She requested a relook at our policy.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6
 Director Deadwyler requested the Board look at providing appreciation to
our staff. She suggested giving plaques to each of the Division and the
Board members to present these plaques to the Divisions. She also
suggested something like having a picnic or BBQ. Subsequently, the Board
should continue this effort on a quarterly basis for the Division that had a
special achievement during that period. Chair Kemp indicated he liked the
idea and would work with Paula to look at budgetary considerations on
what we can do.
 Director Deadwyler indicated that she had done further analysis regarding
the free ride coupons and passed out a copy of her revisions for
consideration.
 Director Cohen reflected on the earlier discussions around respect,
communications, etc and commented the Board needs to explore an
opportunity to build bridges and to create a more collegial environment.
Director Anderson offered to host a social event at her house.
V. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:26 p.m.

