Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 15, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
May 15, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Williams, and Walker.
Director Deadwyler participated by phone

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp, Directors Tayer, and Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Becker, J. Skip Brown, Larry Buter,
Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Mike Gil, Gary Googins,
Lou Ha, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Robin McIntosh
Jr., Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Doug
MacLeod, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, R. J.
Rynerson, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, Walt
Stringer, Phil Washington, William Weidenaar.

Others Present:

Stan Gronek – ATU1001
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Vice Chair Daly in substitute for Tobiassen called the
Operations & Customer Services Committee Meeting to order at 5:32
p.m.

Recommended Action
 August 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August 2012 Service Changes on to public
review and comment.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 2 of 7

to forward this items to the full
Board at the May 22, 2012 Board
Meeting.
Second:

Director Williams seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Jessie Carter shared with the Board
that they will be focused on
maintenance mostly to increase the
ratings for on time performance.
Jesse Carter briefly went over the
summary of proposed service
changes to include service
reductions, services increases,
routine service adjustments,
reinstate seasonal school trips or
deviations, and the financial impact.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously.

 Award of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service committee that the Board of
directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with
the Senior’s Resource Center for the provision of the “Evergreen Call-n-Ride” contracted
demand response transit services. This contract is for one year for an amount not to
exceed &535,356 with four (4) one-year options in the amounts of 4543,567 (option
year 1), $559,603 (option year 2), $576,133 (option year 3) and $593,158 (option year
4), for a total five year amount not to exceed $2,807,817. These costs are based on an
hourly rate and include estimated fuel costs, which will be treated as a “pass-through”
(RTD will reimburse the Contractor’s direct fuel costs). This proposal represents the
most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 12-DO-001, to provide “Evergreen Call-n-Ride” Public Transportation Services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to begin June 1, 2012.
Motion:

Director James made the motion to
forward this items to the full Board
at the May 22, 2012 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Anderson asked staff if
they did a detail research on the
proposed company selected, stating
there is some history of that

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 3 of 7

company not providing good service
in the Arvada area. Brian Matthews
stated that they have done research
and have not received any
complaint. Director Anderson asked
if there was a way to track how
many people attempt to get a ride
that doesn’t actually get one. Brian
stated no, at this point there is only
a way to track those that were
denied.
Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously.

 Route 15/15Ltd Colfax Avenue Transit Priority Project
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with
Apex Design for the study and preliminary and final design and engineering for Phases 1
& 2 of the Colfax Avenue/RTD Route 15/15Ltd Transit Priority corridor pilot program in
an amount not to exceed $500,000.
Motion:

Director James made the motion to
forward this items to the full Board
at the May 22, 2012 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director James thanked staff for all
their hard work and looks forward to
working hand and hand with the
team. He requested additional
description information from Jesse
Carter of what exactly will be taking
place in that area and looks forward
to receiving that information.
Director Hoy asked when the project
would be completed. Jeff Becker
stated it will take about 18 months
to get through each phase. Director
Daly stated that Director Tobiassen
was very pleased with this project.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 4 of 7



Award Contract to Supply 48-45’ Intercity Busses to Replace 14-Year Old
1998-MCI Buses
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award the contract to Motor Coach
Industries (MCI) for the purchase of 48-45’ intercity buses and associated spare
components to replace RTD’s existing 14-year old 1998 Model year MCI buses.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to
forward this items to the full Board
at the May 22, 2012 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director O’Boyle commented that he
would like to see something that
shows how these new buses would
save us money. Bruce Abel stated
that it is fair to say we will get
about 15 years over the road coach
on these buses which are standard
for the FTA guidelines; however the
greater concern is the mileage that
will be used since we accumulate a
lot more miles based on our service
area. General Manager Washington
stated that yes, it will save us
money due in part to our State of
Good Repair program that will have
an impact on this project and we
could get even more than 15 years
out of these new fleet. Director Hoy
asked does the FTA dictate the
policy or is it just a
recommendation. Bruce Abel stated
the guideline is anything less than
the 15 years of usage, they will not
give Federal funding. Director Bagley
asked what was the comparison of
the new MCI to the old buses. Dean
Shaklee stated that the capacity of
passengers, fuel, and aisle clearance
is the standard. The only change is
the luggage compartment is smaller
due to the wheel chair lift that is

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 5 of 7

now located under the floor. As far
as looks it is similar to the 2010,
1990 Model. Director Deadwyler
asked if it was an actual lift or a
ramp. Dean Shaklee stated it is a lift
and it has its own door in the front
of the bus. Director McMullen asked
if the provisions for the lift were a
requirement. General Manager
Washington stated yes.
Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously.



Architectural/Engineering contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SHE),
Contract 11 DO-025 – Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service committee that the Board of
directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to amend contract 11 DO-025
with SHE to allow for additional architectural/engineering design services in the amount
of $1,500,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $2,000,000. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded
by the Civic Center Rehabilitation project.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion
to forward this items to the full
Board at the May 22, 2012 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Cohen seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director McMullen questioned about
the status of the remodeling efforts
at Civic Center Station. Richard Rost
stated that we are aware of the
problems at that facility; the issue is
we are not fully funded yet to
address those problems but they will
begin the process of the design and
once all the funds come in then the
project can be completed. Director
Daly asked if the center will remain
open while under construction for
the springs replacement. Richard
Rost stated no, they will have to
close the station for about a year in
order to complete the project.

Vote on

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 6 of 7

Motion:
II.

The Motion passed Unanimously.

Information

 SMT Project Status Update
Bruce Abel gave a brief update on the SMT project stating they are moving forward with
networking the validations and TVMs and hope to be up and running and on time within
another week. Director Hoy asked how many of the 2,000 volunteers to test the new
system out were from Boulder. Bruce Abel stated that the primary focus is in Boulder but
the volunteers are region wide. Director Hoy asked if the volunteers were getting test
passes. Bruce stated yes and if stated that if any of the Board members would like a pass to
test out the system to just let him know.
 Smart Card Implementation-Fare Policy Issues
Bruce Abel gave a brief update on the Smart Car Implementation stating that the Pilot 1
testing was conducted in March and April and that it passed. Pilot 2 testing will begin May
15th and will bring the results back to the Board at the next meeting.
 Radio –CAD/AVL Project Status Update
Bruce Abel gave a brief update stating that the testing for the CAD/AVL system is
underway. The potential installation conflicts with the SMT project have been identified and
RTD is working with vendors to find a resolution.
 Status Report on Proposed West Corridor Services
Rob Rynerson gave a brief overview of the changes made to the following routes.
o 21
o 30 Ltd
o 100X
o Rte KC
o 9
o 20
o 28
o 32
o 49
o 17
o 76
o 116 Ltd
o AF
o Minor provisions to call-n-ride
Bruce Abel briefly went over the ADA impacts of the West Corridor Service Plan and the
answers to the Access-a-Ride questions that were asked by the board.
III.

Other Matters
Dave Genova gave an update on SB 12-044 stating that it passed which means if one
does not provide valid evidence of mass transit fare payment they will no longer be
charged criminally and those who have been charged under the old bill, once they pay
their tickets the case will automatically be sealed. Any new offenses will be a traffic

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 15, 2012
Page 7 of 7

violation and if the ticket isn’t paid it will then become a civil case. Director O’Boyle
recommended further discussion on our process to issue a warning on the first offense.
Director Daly gave an overview of the Bus Conference that he along with other members
of the Board attended last week stating that it was good to tour the mass transit system
in California.
IV.

Next Meeting Date – June 19, 2012

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 6:40 p.m.

