1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, December 3, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:27 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
6:35 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:26 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Absent
Present

6:42 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Absent

6:27 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:26 PM
6:26 PM
6:28 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Present

6:25 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:27 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:28 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:29 PM
6:26 PM

Directors Daly, Hoy and Rivera-Malpiede were absent. Chair Anderson and Director
Deadwyler arrived after the start of the meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Heather Ellerbrock, Kevin Flynn, Terry Howerter, Kate
Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Brian Middleton, Jerry Nery, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Patrick Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Maria Garcia Berry, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mac Callison, John
Desmond, Mike Dino, Jared Fleisher, Doug Gragg, Mark Lunsford,
Anne Miano, Bill Mosher, Kevin O’Neill, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Denver Union Station Update
Bill Mosher, Denver Unions Station Project Authority Board Owner’s Representative,
reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the
December 3, 2013 Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet.
Director Folska thanked Bill Mosher for his presentation. She said it is always great
to hear his description of how things are moving forward and the progress is very
excited. Director Folska noted that while she is from California and there are a lot
of great artists, she wondered why an artist from Colorado was not selected for the
art at Denver Union Station. Bill Mosher explained that it was decided early on that
Denver Union Stations Project Authority (DUSPA) would contract with the City of
Denver’s public art program. The public art program decided not to limit artists to
Colorado but to see what the interest would be nationally and even internationally.
Bill Mosher shared that there were between 800 and 1,000 submittals and this
artist was selected.
Director Bagley thanked Bill Mosher and Mike Sullivan as the Owner’s
Representatives on the DUSPA Board for getting the project where it is today. He
believes this demonstrates the strong working relationship between RTD and
DUSPA. He thinks it has really been a great effort on their part to be the Owner’s
Representatives; the presentation shows the quality and class of Bill Mosher’s
organization. Director Bagley stated that he is very appreciative personally and
thinks the Board echoes his sentiment. Bill Mosher noted that there are so many
people and organizations involved in the success of DUS and that have a great
working relationship. He said it was rocky at the beginning because there was no
money but everyone worked together. Bill Mosher stated that he is a great believer

that great projects get delivered in great ways because they become bigger than all
of the parties involved; this is a high quality project that is a national model.
Director Menten noted Bill Mosher’s statement that due to the art project being
steel there would need to be structural changes. She asked what the cost of these
changes would be and who would be responsible. Bill Mosher explained that his
team worked with the structural engineers who were able to easily accommodate
structural changes necessary to support the art piece in a fairly easy and cost
effective way. He said that they were negotiating the cost of the modifications
with the artist. He stated that since the Request for Proposal (RFP) RFP was
worded in a way that included all costs of the project his team feels it should be
part of the art cost. Bill Mosher noted that his group would be willing to come up
with funding if necessary so the artists could produce the piece; however in any
scenario this is not large sums of money.
Director Menten shared that several constituents have asked her what happened to
the artwork that was at Market Street Station. Marla Lien, General Counsel, shared
that many years ago there was an art gallery across the street that worked with
RTD to install their statues at Market Street for free. She explained that when they
moved they took their artwork with them as it was never RTD’s property.
Committee Chair James acknowledged the RTD staff for the vision to acquire the
Unions Station property; that vision created the possibility for this project to
happen. He stated that it has been great to watch the collaboration and
commitment to the project from all parties involved.
Bill Sirois, Manager of Transit Oriented Development (TOD) and Planning, said that
as an addendum to Bill Mosher’s presentation he wanted to review the status of
the Wynkoop Plaza RFP process that staff is wrapping up. He reminded the Board
that there have been previous presentations discussing the process to look at how
RTD would manage the open space in the Plaza. Bill Sirois said that staff released
an RFP to manage the space in September and received on bid from Downtown
Denver Partnership (DDP). There was an evaluation committee made up of RTD
staff and area stakeholders who came to a unanimous decision to move forward in
the process with DDP. He explained that staff will be working to develop a master
lease with DDP where DDP will be managing the plaza as well as be responsible for
maintenance and programming. Bill Sirois noted that DDP has experience working
Downtown and can coordinate activities throughout the area.
Director Folska asked if DDP would be putting kiosks in the area similar to those
along the 16th Street Mall. She also wondered how long the lease would be. Bill
Sirois said that negotiations have not progressed that far but the plazas would fall
under the rules and regulations of RTD’s other agreements with DDP. He stated
that currently the lease would be for one year with a two year option thereafter.

Director Menten noted that at certain rail stops there are signs that say ‘No
Pedicabs’. She wonders if this is an RTD policy, City ordinance just for safety.
She asked how close the pedicabs can be to the stops. Bill Sirois said staff would
get back with Director Menten on further information related to the pedicabs.

C. Recommended Actions

• Disposition of Surplus Property Pilot Program
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to
market and to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to dispose of
real property owned by RTD in the vicinity of WCR 27 and WCR #6 and #8,
Lot 1, Block 1, Aurora Highline Subdivision, Filing No. 4 (Alameda/Havana
park-n-Ride), remnants associated with the West Corridor Rail Line at 1395
South Zuni, and vacant land at 104th and Riverdale, Thornton, Colorado to at
least 90% of the current fair market value as determined by appraisal.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Susan Altes, Manager of Real Property, reminded the Board
that in April she and Bill Sirois provided an overview of RTD’s
real property and Transit Oriented Development policies and
practices. She reviewed the Board Report that is available in
the December 3, 2013 Planning and Development Committee
Agenda Packet with the Board.
Committee Chair James asked if the appraised value remains
confidential until a transaction takes place. Susan Altes said
that it would most likely remain confidential if we sold a
property through an RFP but in other cases people would
probably want to know the asking price and we would tell
them. She recommends that the asking price be at least 90%
of fair market value as outlined in the Board Report.
Committee Chair James clarified that this action would
authorize staff to negotiate prices for the properties and
execute a transaction at no less than 90% of the appraised
value. Susan Altes confirmed that was correct.
Director Tobiassen wondered why RTD would want to sell a
property for anything less than 100%. He also wondered why
RTD would sell the property to the adjacent land owner rather

than offer it to everyone. Director Tobiassen noted that there
is an art piece on our property at Alameda and Havana that
was paid for by the City of Aurora. He asked what would
happen to the piece. Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager
of Capital Programs, stated that staff always wants to sell the
properties for more than 90%. He explained that staff just
wants some flexibility to negotiate a sale if it is a bad market.
Susan Altes stated that the City of Aurora has known of
RTD’s interest in disposing of this property for a long time;
however, the sale will be made subject to easement of a parkn-Ride sign on the property. She said that staff could also
include the portion leased by the City of Aurora should we
decide to do so. Bill Sirois stated that staff coordinated with
the City of Aurora about our intentions so market the land to
the adjacent landowners and they support that approach.
Director Folska asked why RTD does not look at leasing the
property in Weld County for something along the lines of
fracking where RTD could get a lot more money over a long
period of time. Susan Altes said that there are no mineral
rights attached to the property; there are only water rights
attached to one parcel. Director Folska requested that when
staff goes to market the property they also market for leasing
the property with water rights as that is something that would
be very valuable.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Bruce Daly, Larry Hoy, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

D. Updates

• TOD Update
Bill Sirois reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is
available in the December 3, 2013 Planning and Development Committee
Agenda Packet.
Director Bagley asked if there has been any revival of activity on the old bus
barn that was tangential to the Alameda Station project. Bill Sirois explained

that staff would begin looking at a process for that parcel once RTD closed
with D4 Urban.
Committee Chair James asked when staff anticipated the closing with D4.
Marla Lien stated that staff was hoping for a January, 2014 closing.

E. Other Matters
Director Lasater commended General Manager Washington, Marla Lien, and the rest
of the staff on the visit from the Utah Transit Authority (UTA). He thought the tour
of Denver Union Station (DUS) and the bus facilities went very well. Director
Lasater noted that the UTA delegation was very animated and quite the
contingency including Board members, City Council members, staff, developers,
and legal counsel. He explained their purposes was to learn about DUS in the
hopes of duplicating something similar.

F. Next Meeting Date - January 7, 2013
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:14 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

