1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, March 3, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Committee Vice-Chair

Remote

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:29 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

4:48 PM
5:20 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Committee Chair
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Remote

5:24 PM
5:13 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:05 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:23 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:27 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:21 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:17 PM

Staff Present:

Ron Bibeau, Bob Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Ewy, David Genova, Doug Gragg,
Genevieve Hutchison, Kate Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla
Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Patrick McMahon, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Andy Mutz, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt
Stringer, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Susan Wood

Others Present:

Homer Anderson, Jenifer Brandeberry, Sarah Camacho, Joan
Conway, Joni Goheen, Eugene Howard, Henry Kelly, Winton
Kingmon, Matt McGimsey, Hanna Mikois, Sherman Hamilton, Cindy
Stovall, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Anna Williams

B. Citizens Advisory Committee
Cynthia Stovall, Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Co-chair, commented that the
committee is looking forward to working with the Directors in the New Year. She
said that the January CAC meeting was cancelled due to weather so their first
meeting was held on February 18th. Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of
Capital Programs, provided the committee with an update of the entire FasTracks
system and Pauletta Tonilas, Senior Manager of Public Relations and Public
Information, presented information on Stand Up for Transportation Day. Cynthia
Stovall shared that the CAC is very excited to work with their local communities to
get them involved as well.
Cynthia Stovall invited the Directors to attend the next CAC quarterly meeting on
March 18th at Anschutz Medical Campus. She said the committee hopes this
meeting will generate a lot of participation from students, faculty and staff at the
Campus. There will be a presentation on the East and I-225 Lines as well as
beginning discussions on potential service changes when the lines open.
Cynthia Stovall shared that the committee is very excited that two-on-one meetings
have been scheduled with the Directors. The two discussion topics the committee
is proposing for the meetings are: (1) as RTD transitions from planning/construction
to operating/maintaining, how might the CAC role change over time and (2) how
might the CAC be able to help each Director individually in their District.
Director Folska expressed that she really values the input and dedication of the
CAC. She wonders if there is a place on the website where all the CAC members
are listed. Cynthia Stovall stated that there is a CAC webpage on the FasTracks
website that has each member’s picture and bio.

Committee Chair Hoy thanked the CAC for all their hard work. He reiterated that
their goal for the two-on-one meetings is to come away understanding the role the
CAC will take as RTD transitions from building to operating and how they can help
each individual Director.
Director Tobiassen commended the CAC for their continued support of the I-225
line.

C. Updates

• Southeast Rail Extension Update
Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager, and Andy Mutz, Engineering Project
Manager, reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is
available in the March 3, 2015 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda
Packet.
Susan Wood reminded the Board that the Southeast Extension is 2.3 miles
of transit service from Lincoln Avenue to RidgeGate Parkway at a cost of
$207 million. This is a project that has been submitted as part of the FTA
New Starts Funding. She said that this project was included in the
President’s 2016 budget for $92 million and received DRCOG Board
approval for inclusion in the 2040 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP). The
next steps are:
 March 2015: anticipate receipt of entry into Engineering
 Summer 2015: Submit final request for Full Funding Grant Agreement
(FFGA)
 Spring 2016: Anticipate receipt of FFGA
Andy Mutz noted that RTD received statements of qualifications from 7
teams. In January 2015 four teams were selected to continue through the
procurement process. The teams selected were:
 Balfour Beatty Infrastructure with Parson Brinkerhoff (serving as
prime contractor and performing systems and design work)
 Graham-Kraemer Joint Venture (prime contractor); Modern Railway
Systems (systems); Stantec (design)
 Kiewit (prime contractor); Mass Electric (systems); Hatch Mott
McDonald (design)
 Stacy Witbeck-Herzog-Wadsworth Joint Venture; Modern Railway
Systems (systems); STV (design)
He explained that the next steps in the procurement process are:
 March 2015: Advertise Request for Proposals (RFP)
 May 2015: Receive Proposals
 May – July 2015: Evaluate Proposals and Make Recommendations
for RTD Board Approval





August 2015: RTD Board Approval
Fall 2015: Issue Notice to Proceed (NTP) for Phase I
(Design)/Groundbreaking
Spring 2016: Issue NTP for Phase II (Construction)

Chair Sisk inquired about the process by which stakeholder involvement
would be requested. He wanted to ensure it would be in a similar manner as
the stakeholder involvement during the North Metro Rail proposal evaluation
process. Andy Mutz stated that staff was definitely planning on engaging
the stakeholders during the review process and seeking their input as with
the North Metro evaluation.
Director Bagley commented that as a member of the Board from the
southern part of the metro area, he wanted to share how excited his
constituents are about this development. He said that anything he can to do
help move this forward he will do.

• Stand Up for Transportation Day Overview
General Manager Washington and Pauletta Tonilas reviewed a Power Point
presentation with the Board that is available in the March 3, 2015 FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet.
General Manager Washington stated that the current long term
transportation bill, MAP-21, is set to expire on May 31st, 2015. This was
originally a two year bill that was extended twice. He explained that the
goal of Stand Up for Transportation Day is to bring attention to the need for
a long term, sustainable transportation funding bill.
General Manager Washington highlighted the first slide titled “RTD’s Federal
Funding Picture”. This slide illustrates the impact locally that the federal
formula grants RTD each year, which is approximately 13% of total
revenues. He stressed that with no new federal funds RTD would have to
reduce overall service levels by 15% and eliminate 400 jobs.
Pauletta Tonilas shared that over 100 cities across the country have
committed to participating on April 9th. She said that she recently attended
an APTA Marketing and Communications Conference with Scott Reed,
Assistant General Manager of Communications, and the buzz was all about
Stand Up for Transportation. People were very excited to participate in this
day and look to RTD as to what they can do in their cities.
General Manager Washington noted that there are a number of national
officials that RTD is encouraging to get out into the field an attend one of
the events. General Manager Washington and Congressman Ed Perlmutter

have personally invited USDOT Secretary Anthony Fox to Denver for this
event; additionally, Governor John Hickenlooper will sign a proclamation in
support of Stand Up for Transportation.
Director Anderson asked if national partners such as the National League of
Cities and the National Association of Counties had been engaged. She also
wonders if perhaps the Directors should work with their cities, chambers of
commerce, etc. to request proclamations. General Manager Washington
explained that the APTA staff is engaging our national organizations such as
the National League of Cities and the National Chamber of Commerce while
RTD is reaching out at the local level. He said that there is also a resource
tool kit on the APTA website to help other agencies. General Manager
Washington stated that he would absolutely like for the Directors to work
with the various entities in their Districts to get additional proclamations.
Director James commented that at a grass roots level, the annual Road
Ahead event on April 2nd, one week before this event, might be a great
opportunity to get in front of several hundred people who are interested in
transportation.
Director Walker inquired if participants were only from larger cities/agencies
or if it was a mix. He noted that usually the only time transit enters the
national picture is when a large agency goes on strike. He hopes this event
will spur a sense of urgency that is needed to keep this country functioning
as there are many people outside major cities that really depend on
transportation. General Manager Washington stated that there was a really
good mix of participation around the country of not just transit agencies, but
entities interested in transportation across the board.
Director Folska believes this is a phenomenal way to get the attention of our
legislators. She encouraged staff to reach out to the elected officials
outside the RTD District as well because what RTD does in the District
impacts in entire state.
Director Francone asked what RTD’s budget is for the event. Pauletta
Tonilas said that we are really doing this on a shoestring budget with lots of
volunteers and help from our partners. She said this campaign has really
been at a grass roots level. The total budget for RTD was $30K.
Director Bagley requested staff create a draft proclamation that they could
supply to the Board. Pauletta Tonilas said that was a great suggestion that
she will work on with her team.
Director Solano suggested that perhaps the non-profit radio community
might be a good venue for publicizing this event. Pauletta Tonilas noted that

media outreach is a big part of the plan and she will look to add those
entities to the list.
General Manager Washington stated that there will also be a huge media
push on the national level that APTA is coordinating. There will be articles
in USA Today, The Wall Street Journal, etc. He said the day of there will be
a “Thunder Clap” where people from all over the country send the same
message at the same time from social media platforms like Twitter and
Facebook.
Director Tobiassen shared that he and Director Folska would be attending
the Aurora Chamber Transportation Meeting the next day. He asked if there
were any handouts that staff could provide for the meeting. Pauletta
Tonilas said she would send out some material this evening.
Chair Sisk thanked everyone involved for their hard work on this event. He
wondered if perhaps a computer could be available for each of the District
tours so people could sign the petition. He thinks that perhaps a friendly
competition of what District gets the most signatures might be a fun way to
encourage people to sign. Pauletta Tonilas stated that in addition to having
a laptop or iPad, they will also be able to help people access it on their
phones.
Committee Chair Hoy volunteered Smart Commute Metro North’s help in his
District. He said they would be very happy to assist in the event. He
inquired if the dates for the District tours had been confirmed. Pauletta
Tonilas said the dates would be finalized tomorrow.
Committee Chair Hoy thinks this is a great promotion for transportation. He
thanked everyone on the staff that has worked so hard to pull this event
together, especially General Manager Washington since this was his idea.
He believes this will really bring awareness of the need for transportation
funding to people across the nation.
General Manager Washington commented that this would be a topic of
conversation at the APTA Legislative Conference next week. He asked the
Directors that are attending to make sure they have handouts, talking points,
etc. for this event when they visit our Congressional delegation.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 7, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:16 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

