2025-01-13
Performance Committee Meeting
PEGGY CATLIN: Good morning. The Monday, January 13th, Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:29 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video-recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like access to this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com. And a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek?
Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Nicholson? And I am Peggy Catlin. And I am here. So, for the record, I see that
there are six Directors present and one absent.
JACK KROLL: Director Catlin, it looks like Director Nicholson just joined.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Good morning, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Good morning.
PEGGY CATLIN: I also see that we have Director Chandler and Director Bouquet. And am I missing
anyone? OK, thank you, non-committee member directors who have joined us. The first item on the
agenda this morning is the selection of the Committee Chair and Vice Chair. In my capacity as the lastelected Performance Committee Chair, I will facilitate the election for Committee Chair and Vice Chair.

Once both those seats are filled, I'll turn the meeting over to the newly-elected Committee Chair. Unlike
the Executive Committee election process, which uses secret ballots for the election of Board Officers for
committee leadership elections, we will proceed with open nominations, discussion, and then vote by the
full committee. We will begin with the selection of the Chair, and then the Vice Chair.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. Bye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I see we've also been joined by Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: We'll allow up to three minutes for those Board members who nominate a candidate,
those second nominations, if any, and any other members who wish to speak regarding the candidates,
to speak. I will then call for a voice vote, in which Directors will be asked to state the name of the
candidate whom they support. The candidate who receives a majority support of present voting members
will be declared the winner.
If only one Director is nominated, the committee may proceed by acclamation. And that Director will be
appointed. I will begin by asking for nominations for Committee Chair. Are there any nominations for
Chair of the Performance Committee? I see Director Buzek has his hand raised. You are on mute,
Director Buzek. We don't hear you.
VINCE BUZEK: How's that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Good, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry about that. I'd like to nominate Director Guzman for Chair of the Performance
Committee. As I indicated at the Tuesday night meeting, Director Guzman has distinguished himself in a
variety of ways on the board. Most recently, it's been, especially with regard to the Performance
Committee, in his work on the Performance Committee in the past, including negotiations with the GM
CEO on our most recent contract. I think he's well-placed to lead this committee for this current year.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Is there a second? Director Larsen, I see your hand raised.
MATT LARSEN: I'm not a second.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: This is Director Gutschenritter. I second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Larsen, did you have a comment to make?
MATT LARSEN: I just wanted to nominate myself for Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. With Directors Guzman and Larsen having been nominated, are there any other
nominations?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I should second Director Larsen's nomination. We need that-- obviously, he would
need a second. And I'll do that as a courtesy for him.
PEGGY CATLIN: We do not need a second. But thank you for your--

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh, I apologize.

PEGGY CATLIN: That's OK. This is a little bit different than our election of the Executive Committee. Not
only that, is, that we don't require a minimum number. We only require a majority of the Directors present,
Committee Directors present.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Got it.
PEGGY CATLIN: So, again, with Directors Guzman and Larsen having been nominated, I will provide an
opportunity for each of the candidates to let us know why they feel that they would be a good chair of this
committee. And I will call on Director Guzman first.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Hello. Good morning, everybody. It's nice to see you,
even remotely. I did, as Director Buzek said, worked with former Chair Davidson to complete negotiations
with our esteemed General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson. So I understand the contract and what
we look at in terms of work that needs to be completed this year.
I also bring with me over 25 years of coaching and development of different partners in retail and
associates at work, as a manager and a supervisor. Obviously, a CEO is a little bit of a different level. But,
nonetheless, we are working with our one employee that we are responsible for ensuring is taken care of.
Having busted my tail on Performance Committee for the last two years, I'm well aware of all of the ins
and outs of this committee and what needs to happen in a timely manner to make sure that we can all
work together to complete our work and get things to the board in a timely manner so nothing is waiting.
And nothing is left on the table.
I believe I have a fairly good working relationship with Mrs. Johnson, our CEO and General Manager. And
I also really am looking forward to the opportunity in listening to everybody and trying to find a path
forward, while simultaneously making sure that we complete our work plan, and get that done as quickly
as possible and as efficiently as possible so we can make progress for the agency. So I ask for your
support. And I ask for you to lean in when things get difficult. And let's work together and get it done. So I
would appreciate your support. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guzman. Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I ran for Director out of a lot of frustration with the performance of this agency. I
ran because of my frequent experience with the trains near me, not arriving anywhere near the time that
they were scheduled, and, a lot of time, never showing up at all. I ran because I was frustrated with the
conditions of the trains, a lot of flagrant violations of the code of conduct in many ways.
Frankly, the train stations were, often, kind of embarrassing and scary places for my three young girls
when I would take them on rides with me. And I ran because I felt that the existing board, based on all of
that, had largely failed in its responsibilities to provide the oversight necessary to get RTD to an
acceptable level of performance, and that there should be some accountability. Now that I'm here and
gotten a closer look at how things have been done, I think I understand some of the reasons why it's
failed.
In the performance scorecard for 2024, only 7% of the goals there were prioritized measures of
performance that really matter, including on-time ridership and on-time reliability, and increasing ridership.

When you don't measure the things that really matter, it's not really that surprising when you don't get
results. Unlike my opponent for Chair, I'm not satisfied with telling riders, when their trains are
unpredictably delayed, that they should just take the opportunity to spend 30 or 40 minutes to catch up on
a book or listen to a podcast.
To me, that perspective does not reflect the judgment necessary to take a leadership role in setting
performance goals for this organization. And I think, between the week performance goals that were set
last year and those kind of comments, I think it should be disqualifying. I mean, really, what does the
public and our critics think of us as a board when we assign that role, that has the greatest responsibility
for setting our agenda for improving performance, to someone who's been involved and has made these
statements like that.
I also am disappointed, and I think I can do better, in the area of synchronizing the planning process that
leads to our performance goals. Right now, our budgeting, our labor contracts, our management
contracts, and our performance goals are not happening on a schedule that follows any kind of rational
planning approach. We're sitting here in January with the 2025 budget already set, a management
contract already signed, a labor contract possibly imminent.
And we're being asked to determine, in only a few weeks, what are some good targets for our GM CEO
next year, something that, I think, because of the planning process being entirely out of sync, we're poorly
prepared to do. So I'm running for Performance Committee Chair, and, failing that, Vice Chair, because I
think it's time for new leadership on this committee that has the organizational planning and goal-setting
experience that'll move us forward. I have over 20 years as an executive in the medical device industry.
And during most of that time, I have participated in or led goal-setting, budgeting, and planning processes
for the companies that I've worked for. I've personally led the development of achievement quotas and
incentive plans for highly-paid sales professionals for the majority of my 20 years in that industry. And as
Performance Committee Chair, I would help us get a planning and goal-setting process that drives results
and sets us back on the path to restoring the public's trust in this agency. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Larsen. I will now proceed to call on each committee member in
alphabetical order for their vote. Pardon me.
JACK KROLL: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Nicholson's hand is raised.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I believe, you mentioned, we're allowed to speak on the nominations if we want to
before the vote. Is that correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's correct.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK, thank you. So I wanted to say, so, I've been friends with Matt Larson for a
good number of years now. And he's someone I deeply respect. We've worked together as leaders in the
YIMBY movement. And I've seen the quality of his work up close. He is dedicated. He is thoughtful. He is
smart. And he is a consummate professional.
I'm going to be supporting Director Guzman today because I believe that, when it comes to the leadership
of a committee as important as Performance, Director Guzman's experience on the Committee and the

work that I have seen him do over the last year has more than convinced me that he will be an effective,
impartial leader and broker of the variety of opinions on this Committee.
We have a complicated year ahead of us with a lot of different people, with, as we saw just now, a lot of
different opinions. And we need someone who will bring that group of people together and listen well.
And, Michael, as I said also about Director Benker when I nominated her for Treasurer, Michael is a good
listener. He takes the time to talk to everyone. He hears them out. And I think that he will do a good job of
leading this committee in the year to come.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Nicholson. Are there any other comments before we proceed to the
vote? And, Director Nicholson-- oh, you did take your hand down. Thank you. OK, I'll proceed in
alphabetical order. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Guzman.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guzman.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Guzman.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Guzman.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Myself.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Director Guzman. And I will cast my vote for Director Guzman as well. So, we
have-- the majority vote is six for Director Guzman and one for Director Larsen. Excuse me.
Congratulations, Director Guzman, as Committee Chair. Now, I'll ask for nominations for Committee Vice
Chair. Are there any nominations for Vice Chair? Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It would be an honor to nominate Christopher Gutschenritter from District B, if I'm
not mistaken. Sorry, I'm relearning everybody's names and districts now. He has a long history with
human resource, and I think would make an excellent Vice Chair, bringing knowledge and skill to that role
that's going to be needed to navigate the work of this committee.
And I do believe that he is also committed, as I am, to getting the work done this year, on time and
efficiently. It would also be nice to bring in one of the new directors to start learning the leadership roles
and set the team up all together, all of us, everybody, for the future work of this board, as we do have
members that will roll off and new members that will come on. So it's my honor to invite Chris
Gutschenritter to become the new Vice Chair of Performance Committee. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, now-Chair Guzman. Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I would second that nomination. In my limited interactions
with Director Gutschenritter, I found him to be open and sincere and not bring any pre-formed biases to
the Board, or anything else. So I think he'd be a great addition.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Larsen, please.
MATT LARSEN: I'll nominate myself.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Are there any other nominations? So, with Director Gutschenritter and Director
Larsen having been nominated as Committee Vice Chair, I will now proceed to call on each. Well, I'll ask
if there are any comments on behalf of those nominated, either by themselves or by others.
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: This is Director Gutschenritter. I just want to say, thank you very
much for the nomination. I do believe, with my professional experience and background, which has been
in consulting over a decade, specifically in the HR function, I have seen a whole lot of different
companies, organizations, been closely involved with designing performance processes and consulting
on the performance cycle firsthand.
So, with that, I believe that I have the relevant experience. And then, also, as Director Buzek said, I
believe there are soft skills, the eagerness to learn. And I would look forward to and appreciate the
chance to work hand in hand with Director Guzman. So, thank you again for the nomination.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Larsen, do you have anything you want to add that you didn't already mention?
MATT LARSEN: No, no.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. All right, I will proceed in alphabetical order, for the votes. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Gutschenritter.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Gutschenritter, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRISTOPHER GUTSCHENRITTER: Gutschenritter.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Gutschenritter.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Myself.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Gutschenritter.

PEGGY CATLIN: And I am a vote for Director Gutschenritter. I'm noticing a preponderance of G last
names in this Committee. Congratulations, Director Gutschenritter. With a vote of six to one, you have
been selected as Committee Vice Chair. Congratulations. Now, it's my pleasure to hand the reins over to
Director Guzman as Chair of this Committee. And thank you all for your patience as I ran the first part of
this meeting. So, with that, I'm going to put myself on mute and let Director Guzman take over. Thank
you, all.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. It is time for the public comment. Jack, please correct me if I'm
wrong. I'm trying to follow along on the script and take notes. All right, I would like to open the public
comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published
meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and you have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand, or press star
9 on your phone. During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, this is Jack Kroll. At this time, I see no hands raised.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Were there any emails or other communications for the Committee?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, there were no emails sent in advance of this meeting with
respect to this meeting's agenda items or the preceding months.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With no participants in the queue, we will close the public
comment period at this time. We will proceed to other matters before I open the floor to other Directors
who may have other matters to discuss. I would like to ask, please, the Board Office Executive Manager,
Mr. Jack Krill, to provide a quick update on the Performance Committee's work plan and our next
meeting.
JACK KROLL: Yes, thank you, Committee Chair Guzman. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the
Board Office. Again, as those of you who have been following closely with the packets that were
published for this week, two of the other Board's standing committees have discussions slated for their
work plans this week. Do not fret. There is a work plan that GM and CEO, Debra Johnson, Executive
Business Partner, John McKay, and myself have been crafting for this committee.
The plan is to discuss that work plan at your next meeting, which is subsequently slated to occur on
Tuesday, January 21st. So, that's coming. I also want to note that, given the timing here of the Board
retreat on February 1st, and then the subsequent Performance Committee meeting on February 3rd, it is
unlikely that the Performance Committee would be in a position to approve its work plan in February.
While that certainly would be your discretion, the Board bylaws require that you approve your work plan
by March, at the latest. And so, I believe having a little bit more time baked in for you all to have deep, indepth conversations with GM and CEO Johnson on the work plan makes sense to approve that in March.
So I just wanted to provide that update on your timeline for that first key item for this committee.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Are there any other matters to discuss? I do not see any
hands raised. Before I follow this script, I just do want to point out one thing, as it is at the end. The next
meeting date is Tuesday, January 21st. And I believe it is at 8:30 AM. I will tilt my hat to all of the
Directors. We can have a discussion about meeting times.

But we do need to work with CEO Johnson's schedule, if we are going to make any changes to that
meeting time, for everybody to work. But these first two were so close together. I just wanted to make
sure that I announced that clearly so everybody knew and could get it on the calendar. I do realize, there
may be conflicts in some ways. But we will work through it and figure it out together as a team, OK?
All right, in a moment, the Committee will meet in executive session to receive and to discuss personnel
matters regarding the GM CEO's 2025 performance goals. I would like to append the motion to move into
executive session to state that the Performance Committee meeting will be deemed adjourned after it
adjourns into the executive session. For public transparency, this means that, once the committee moves
into executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following. Pursuant to Section
24-6-402, open parenthesis, 4, close parentheses, open parentheses, F, close parentheses, open
parentheses, I, close parentheses, CRS-- for consideration of personnel matters regarding the general
manager and CEO's 2025 performance goals and input from the Board of Directors on the same.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I note the movement as Director Buzek and the second as Director Nicholson. The
main meeting is adjourned into executive session at 8:54 AM.
JACK KROLL: Director Guzman? You just need to ask for the vote. See if anyone is opposed.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry! Thank you. See? I'm learning already. May I have a vote? Are there any no
votes? Seeing no no votes, the meeting is adjourned at 8:55 AM, the main meeting. For all of those who
are expected to attend, please leave this Zoom room and move over to the Executive Session room.
Please allow a few minutes to transition our meeting to the executive session.

