Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
January 3, 2020 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Interim GM Search Discussion

III.

Executive Session
Personnel matters, CRS 24-6-402 (4)(f)(I), and further conferences with the attorney
for legal advice and to provide instructions regarding CRS 24-6-402 (3.5) and the
powers and duties of a search committee of a state public body or local public body.

IV.

Recommended Action
A.

Selection of Preliminary Interim GM Candidates

The Executive Committee presents to the Board of Directors a motion to proceed with
initial interviews for those individuals identified by the Board, during the executive session
held during a Special Board Meeting in the first week of January 2020, as preliminary
candidates for the position of Interim General Manager.

V.

Other Matters

VI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

4.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date: December 30, 2019

From:

Doug Tisdale, Board Chair & Director, District
H

GM

Date:

December 30, 2019

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Selection of Preliminary Interim GM Candidates

RECOMMENDED ACTION
The Executive Committee presents to the Board of Directors a motion to proceed with initial interviews
for those individuals identified by the Board, during the executive session held during a Special Board
Meeting in the first week of January 2020, as preliminary candidates for the position of Interim General
Manager.
BACKGROUND
On November 21, 2019, General Manager David A. Genova filed paperwork for his retirement from RTD
after 26 years of service to the organization.
During a Special Board Meeting held on Tuesday, December 3, 2019, the Board adopted preliminary
procedures for designating an Interim General Manager/Chief Operating Officer (GM/CEO) and authorized
the Executive Committee to conduct a preliminary screening of applicants. The Board further charged the
Executive Committee to present, no later than January 3, 2020, all submittals and, if the Executive
Committee so desired, the top two internal and top two external candidates identified by the Executive
Committee.
In searching for an Interim GM to lead the agency until such time as a permanent can be hired, the Board
expressed that successful applicants would have, inter alia, the following qualifications and attributes:







A passionate, dynamic and forward thinking leader
Strong interpersonal and communication skills, and exceptional negotiating skills
Ability to manage and lead an organization in a highly political, complex and transparent
environment
Ability to work collaboratively and build bridges internally and externally to create opportunities to
advance RTD’s strategic objectives
Progressive approach to identify technological initiatives and other forward-thinking business
practices that maximize efficiencies and offer service options to customers
Proven record of working closely with the community and advocating for their needs as they
relate to mobility and regional development.

On Friday, December 27, 2019, the Executive Committee met in executive session to confirm that it
would present its top two internal and external candidates and then proceeded to identify the top
internal and external candidates from all submittals to suggest to the full Board. The Executive
Committee shared those candidates with the full Board, and each Director was then asked to submit to
the Board Office a list of as many as eight (8) applicants to move forward as preliminary candidates.

Packet Pg. 2

4.A

DISCUSSION
In adopting this Recommended Action, the Board of Directors, acting in its capacity as the Selection
Committee of the Whole for the Interim GM, is determining a select pool of qualified preliminary
candidates to move forward in the interview process. Selection as a preliminary candidate does not
qualify such candidate as a finalist candidate for the position of Interim GM for purposes of CRS §24-6402 (3.5) or for any other purpose.
It is proposed that the Board interview preliminary candidates during one or more Special Board Meetings
to be held as necessary between Thursday, January 9, 2020, and Friday, January 17, 2020, and to
conduct all of such interviews in executive session. The Board intends to select, at a date to be
determined, a group of finalists from the pool of preliminary candidates in accordance with search and
selection requirements, which finalists may be may then go through a second or further interviews.
The Board will review and confirm the process it wishes to follow, either as described above or
otherwise, and then, as and when appropriate, convene in executive session to consider applications for
the position of Interim GM/CEO.
ALTERNATIVES
1) To identify a select pool of qualified preliminary candidates to move forward in the interview
process.
2) To revert to the process used during the hiring of the Interim General Manager in 2015, wherein
only internal candidates were considered, as described in the materials previously submitted to
the Board.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact associated with the adoption of this recommended action is as previously
discussed.

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

