2022-06-15
Study Session
VINCE BUZEK: I'm going to ask Tai-Shrae to start the recording. And I will now call the Tuesday, June
15th study session to order. We are convened as a 5.32 PM I would respectfully ask everyone to remain
muted unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening.
Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the
interest of public safety, health, and welfare. The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held
via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes
of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit RTD-Denver.com.
And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Colleagues, being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values we can all agree upon. As such, I
encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in accordance
with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website. Thank you.
Ms. McManus, would you please call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROWN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis? Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm here also. And with 13 present, and two absent, we do have a quorum. So tonight's
study session is about Reimagine RTD. And this process initially began as a two year effort in 2019 to
evaluate and forecast the changing transportation needs of our region. And to involve our customers and
stakeholders in the conversation. We wanted to understand what was important to the people of the
district as the agency looked to the future.
It's no secret that RTD is facing many challenges in the past several years, such as workforce availability,
being able to meet public and stakeholder expectations, and because of COVID-19 reduced ridership and
reduced sales and use tax revenues. The agency is exploring ways to revamp our services, and
potentially reallocate our resources to meet the future needs of our growing district. And we hope to
answer the question of, what's next for RTD? General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson before we
begin with the staff presentation, would you like to provide any comments?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening. Actually, I am starting the
presentation. So if I can have members of the team pull that up, that would be wonderful.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks a lot.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. So if we can proceed with the next slide. As introduced I'm Debra
Johnson, the General Manager and CEO. And this evening, what we will be doing is basically providing
you with information primarily focusing on the discussion on the mobility plan for the future. What I'm
going to take an opportunity to do now is briefly review the elements of the System Optimization Plan.
Following this study session, I will be distributing to the Board a memorandum this evening that includes
links to the most up to date information on the draft SOP and the Mobility Plan for the Future.
Those of you following along virtually will be able to access these materials via RTD's website by
navigating to rtd-denver.com/reimagine. Once again, that's rtd-denver.com/reimagine. The draft
Reimagine RTD documents will be made widely available through extensive outreach and communication

consistent with previous practice during the project. If we can proceed to the next slide, please. Thank
you.
So the SOP addresses short and mid-term challenges that are likely to continue well into the future,
including the agency's ongoing people power problems. Service priorities identified in the System
Optimization Plan serve as the project team's North Star, and help to determine what's next for RTD. The
SOP contemplates the means of addressing the state of good repair across the agency, and its 2,342
square mile district, which will be critical to RTD's long term success. Next slide, please.
The family of services and robust partnership program articulated in the Mobility Plan for the Future will
be initially implemented as the SOP elements are rolled out over multiple service changes. I would note
that the SOP is in sync with the agency's five year mid-term financial plan, while the Mobility Plan for the
Future is tied to a forthcoming updated long range financial plan. Next slide, please.
So the map before you shows the service subregions, which are the subject of the metrics on the next
slide. So this graphic highlights metrics attributable to SOP implementation based on outcomes tied to
Reimagine RTD guiding principles such as equity and mobility. I like to note that the SOP provides more
bus service hours per capita in all service subregions compared to current conditions. Significantly bus
service hours per equity zone capita increased in all service subregions with the System Optimization
Plan.
And then, finally, equity zone populations of-- excuse me, let me correct myself. Equity zone population
access to stops with 15 minutes or better service improves in all subregions with the SOP. Going to the
next slide. As noted previously, the final draft of the System Optimization Plan will be released later this
evening at the conclusion of the study session. The Board will have the opportunity to initially consider the
SOP recommended action during the July 13th Operations and Safety Committee. And subsequently
during the July 26th Board meeting.
So with that information, it's my pleasure to yield this virtual floor to Holly Buck from HU to share
information regarding the Mobility Plan for the Future. Holly.
HOLLY BUCK: Debra, thank you. So the last time we were all together we had a discussion about the
initial financial findings. And I just want to give you a quick recap of those. So what we talked about is that
the initial analysis identified that prior to 2020, we knew that we were operating more service than the
allocated resources. And when we talk about allocated resources we're talking about workforce and we're
talking about funding available. And then the agency was deferring the state of good repair.
So long term, as we started to look into those financial projections moving forward, we found that there
was limited and no capacity to grow bus and rail services, to make any substantial capital investments, or
to complete any FasTracks segments over the next 20 years. So what we identified-- and this is the bold
and the bottom-- was that there's a pretty significant gap between what the public and stakeholders'
expectations are, and what can actually be provided now and into the future.
And one of the things that you all asked about is, OK, well, so what are we going to do about this? And
what does this gap really look like? And how do we respond to that? So this next slide gives a bit more
information on the scenarios that we have put together thus far for the Mobility Plan for the Future. Now,
there is an absolutely huge amount of detail in the financial analysis behind this. But we tried to
summarize to give you the most pertinent information for tonight's meeting.

So the Mobility Plan for the Future always identified two scenarios. What's the fiscally constrained
scenario? And what is an aspirational scenario look like? We've added a third scenario to this mix
because when we started to look at the fiscally constrained, we had an assumption of using DRCOGS
2050 Fiscally Constrained Plan as the fiscally constrained plan for the work. When we got into that, we
found that from a financial perspective there was a pretty big gap in funding available and what you were
able to support.
So we made what we're referring to here as scenario number one, which is the RTD fiscally constrained.
Now these are not scenarios that you pick and choose from. These are more informational scenarios. So
you can have a good sense of what your financial picture looks like under these different scenarios
should you not be able to obtain more funding, and if you are able to obtain more funding.
So let's just talk through these three scenarios so we're all on the same page about it. So the first
scenario, the RTD fiscally constrained, makes an assumption of about-- and these are all out in 2050. Of
about 360,000 boardings daily for RTD. So put some perspective on that. That's not a huge amount of
growth over what you had pre-pandemic. In pandemic, you're somewhere around 200,000 boarding daily.
When we move over to the DRCOG Fiscally Constrained Plan, we've assumed a substantial amount of
growth in boardings. Up to about 620,000 daily. And when we go to that aspirational, we're able to
achieve something around 800,000 boarding per day.
Now these are modeled numbers. And there's a lot of assumptions behind these numbers. But these are
really more to give a sense of if you hold tight, if you have some growth, and if you have pretty substantial
growth at the agency in your boarding. So with that, proportionately we've increased your operating
capacity of all modes as we look at these scenarios. So under the first one, the RTD Fiscally Constrained,
we've actually assumed that you're holding the SOP level of service moving forward through 2050.
Now the region is expected to grow by about 30%. So this is not an ideal way to handle responding to
growth in the region and growth in travel demand. Right? But what we're trying to get to here is an
understanding of if you don't have any additional funding, what are you limited to in your operating
capacity? When we move up to the DRCOG, we've increased pretty substantially, about 70 or so percent,
the operating capacity of the agency. And 92% when we go out to that aspirational scenario.
And then as we move down the chart, you can see the assumptions that are made about what kind of
capital investments are associated and included here. So we have new BRT routes as the third line down.
And you can see that we have the 11 that are included in the DRCOG plan. And under the aspirational
scenario, we increase that to 22. And there's some differences in how the costs are handled there as well.
Then we move down the line. You obviously have facilities that you need to renovate, grow, expand. If
you have twice as many people riding your services-- say for instance you have more buses, you have
more rail vehicles, you have to have places to maintain and store those as well. So we've made
assumptions about improvements and increases in size for those facilities.
You can see the next line down is the assumptions that are made under each of these scenarios for the
FasTracks capital investment. Then the next line down refers to the additional capital capacity
investments. And you can see we don't have any under the RTD fiscally constrained. But we do have
some when we move into the DRCOG Fiscally Constrained and Aspirational. And then we have one that
talks about more of the emerging capital investments emerging technologies. And this is really around
trying to focus on zero emission bus and other new technologies and emerging technologies that are
coming out.

So the last two lines are really the meat of this chart. So what we see now if you hold tight, you are not
able to get any additional funding sources coming in the door. And we hold at that 2027 SOP level of
service for RTD, by the time we get to 2050, we have about a $2 billion deficit in place. And we're
assuming that TABOR is in place in that scenario. When we move over to the DRCOG Fiscally
Constrained, that deficit is about $20 billion cumulative 2022 to 2050. And we have assumed at this point
that the TABOR restriction has been removed. I mean, that is such a sizable number. We're going to
make the assumption that that's happened.
And then when we go all the way out to the aspirational scenario, we're about $35 million in the deficit.
We've also assumed there that the TABOR restriction is removed. So what do we do about that? In the
DRCOG Fiscally Constrained Plan and Aspirational, we looked at a variety of different mechanisms for
funding these the deficits here. And really what it came down to was that sales tax was the most effective.
There's a reason you use that today. But when we looked at property tax, sales tax, fares, parking fees, a
whole slew of different opportunities, sales tax is really the most effective.
You'd need about 0.5% under that DRCOG Fiscally Constrained and a 1%, which is doubling basically
what you have today to achieve that aspirational scenario. If we want to move on to the next slide, that
gives you a sense of where the financial picture lies right now. So how do we get-- this just to focus on
the right here, and the RTD fiscally constrained scenario. How do we get that balance? Because we refer
to it as RTD being fiscally constrained. But you saw that there was still some deficit there. About $2 billion
cumulative.
So one of our initial recommendations is to remove that TABOR restriction. And that really helps get you
a lot closer to being fiscally even. And then just for your reference, if we eliminate those FISA
contributions, those are about $105 million between 2022 and 2050. So that also helps to balance that a
bit as well. So that gives you some information on where we stand with that. And hopefully we can take
questions. If you have detailed questions, I'll probably need to get back to you on the financial analysis.
But hopefully, I can answer them.
And then the next slide just steps you through the structure. I think you've seen this for the Mobility Plan
for the Future. We start on the left side where we're really setting the stage and understanding all the
work that RTD and your other stakeholders have worked on throughout the years. And then the guiding
principles that were adopted by the Board about a year ago. Then we work through the public
engagement process, and the market analysis. And who do we expect to be riding as we move into the
future.
And then all those solutions that we considered to make sure that RTD is well structured to meet the
future needs. And then the final is the Mobility Plan for the Future, which is obviously strategies and
policies that come together to guide the agency forward. When you see the memo from CEO Johnson,
you'll see that there is a link to this draft. I wouldn't even yet quite call it a draft plan. But it is a draft
structure. It's the framework that you will be able to click on each of these bubbles, and start to get a
sense of how the plan comes together. And it's in digital formats, and we'd love your feedback on that.
So none of the formal recommendations are yet in the right on the Mobility Plan for the Future part. But
you'll get the framework, and hopefully you'll have some feedback for us. All right. I believe Julie is going
to step us through a few questions.
JULIE SKEEN: Terrific. Thank you so much. And then we'll have opportunities for questions from you as
well. What I wanted to do is take us back kind of up a level. So when you see the Mobility Plan for the

Future, there's a lot of detail to it. And there's a lot of tactics. And there's a lot of very specific strategies.
What we wanted to really do tonight was take that all up a level and say, what should you be focused on?
You are the policy holder. You are the direction of this agency. And you deal with that level of issues.
So we wanted to kind of quickly summarize three what we see as key policy concerns. And then I'm going
to run through the next three or four slides very quickly with our recommendations. But then I'm going to
go back because this is really the opportunity for this study session to hear from you.
My understanding is we can be a little fast and loose today. That we could actually have conversations
about this. We're not necessarily going to be going to the Chair for every question. We really just like
people to raise their hands, and engage with us. And engage with each other because these are really
significant issues. And we're very excited as staff on the project team to really be able to place these in
front of you, and really get your thoughts.
So with, that I'll talk very quickly. These are the three. Again, these aren't the only policy considerations.
And these aren't the only aspects of the Mobility Plan for the Future. But these are the ones that we
thought were substantial and big picture enough to really want to interface with you directly on.
So the first key policy concern is varying Board perspectives regarding how and where to provide service.
And I don't think this will shock any of you. I mean, part of it is the nature of how RTD is structured. And
you are elected officials representing geographic areas. But what that has resulted in is a little bit of a
challenge in terms of clarity for what, where, and when, and how to provide service. So just making that
really clear and sort of having a consensus opinion about that, that's something that we feel like has been
a little bit challenging. And so we have some recommendations for you based on all the work that we've
been doing.
The second issue is what Holly's been talking about. So that is that there is a substantial long term
funding gap. I think a lot of us when we started this project, we were very optimistic. We were thinking the
numbers are really going to start turning around once you pay off some of the remaining debt.
Unfortunately, what we're seeing with the nature of the growth and the operational expenses, and just
when you put all these in the state of good repair, when you put all these pieces together we are, as Holly
just walked through, looking at a pretty substantial long term funding gap.
And then the third, we also highlighted as well. One of the most significant findings throughout this entire
multi-year effort is just the level of expectations that is put on RTD from your public and your stakeholders
versus really what you can afford or what you can provide. What you can afford financially. But you also
you can provide from a workforce perspective. Because obviously, workforce still ends up being first and
foremost in terms of our challenges today.
So we're going to talk a little bit about that. Like I said, I'm going to walk through these recommendations
quickly. But then we're going to go back to each of these and really have an opportunity for a discussion.
So as I go through these next couple of slides, love for you to be thinking about, hey, could you support
this as an RTD Board member? Are these recommendations you could support.? If not, why? And are we
missing anything? Is there something that you really just feel like should be addressed in terms of
recommendations to address these key policy concerns. So start off with varying Board perspectives.
Our recommendations-- and I don't think this will shock you-- is we did a lot of work around the SOP. We
feel like there was a lot of feedback. We got over 1,600 comments. We got a lot of feedback from a lot of

different organizations. We feel like there's a good framework there. We hope that the Board will support
that. And we do think that that's a foundation that you can kind of build on.
The second piece that we heard loud and clear from all of our outreach, there's a lot of consensus and a
lot of positive support for this concept of equity populations. So really when you say, where do we provide
service first? Well, we really look at these equity populations, and where we have the highest
concentrations of them. And we're trying to put that service in. And a lot of that came-- as you know, we
started this project, and then the pandemic hit. And really I think the message that came out loud and
clear from what we saw during the pandemic was these are the groups that need the service the most.
These are the groups that hung on with you during the pandemic, and are still riding the system, and still
need this system.
The third would be looking at a high capacity, high quality regional backbone service. So it's sort of the R
in RTD. Being the regional peace. That is what RTD brings to the table. That is RTD's greatest strength is
that connectivity. You know, you've got an enormous service area. So the way you lay out sort of that
backbone that everything can connect to is really absolutely essential from the project team's
recommendations to really make sure that is a high priority for you.
And then the last couple. And we're going to talk about this a couple of times. It is the project team's
recommendation and our vision that there's really some great partnership opportunities, especially when
you get to that community service, first mile last mile, hyperlocal sort of routes. There's great opportunities
for partnering. And we've got some suggestions on how to structure that in the Mobility Plan for the
Future.
And then, finally, we've heard this term quite a bit from us this concept of the mobility integrator. So this
concept that RTD in the future 2050, you're not providing every type of multimodal option out there. But
you are in a role where you are presenting that in a way to the public so it's very seamless. So if they're
trying to get from point A to point B, there's maybe three or four options.
There's micro transit options. Maybe you can catch a scooter here from the station. Again, RTD not
operating all of that. Not owning all of that. But RTD being that sort of umbrella organization that presents
it to stakeholders and your customers as a very seamless opportunity and seamless way to plan your
travel. So keep that in mind. We'll come back to the varying Board perspectives next.
No two, substantial long-term funding gap. I think we talked about that second bullet about removing the
TABOR restrictions. That is something that you will see as a formal recommendation from your project
team and staff here because that is, as Holly said, even if you get no additional funding, you really still
need to do everything you can to remove those TABOR restrictions to continue holding on to the funding
that you have by 2050. So we feel like that's an important piece.
Another important piece is prioritizing state of good repair. I think we've all seen over the last few
decades, not just RTD, but transit agencies across the country and across the world, it's tough to prioritize
boring things like maintaining facilities versus exciting things like opening new lines and things like that.
But the reality, and I think you guys feel this as well as an organization, that you recognize that you've got
to stay on top of it. Because it can start impacting the operations of your system. And it also gets more
expensive. The longer you wait to fix something, the more expensive it is.
So really our recommendation is prioritize that state of good repair, try to deepen your TABOR, and then
look at increasing sales tax. What sort of opportunity do we have to increase sales tax? And again, this

partnership program that I introduced in the last slide. This idea of setting it up-- almost think of kind of
DRCOG's process where you have a call to projects, and you have criteria. And you maybe carve away a
small part of your operating funds every year so that you can really identify these partnership
opportunities for the first mile, last mile hyperlocal service. And really seeking those opportunities to do
that in a most cost effective manner.
And then, finally, just obviously keeping your eyes and ears open because there have been a lot of
opportunities, especially from a sustainability perspective, to really look at opportunities for federal grants,
state grants, private sector money related to sustainability and anything else obviously. But we do
recognize that there are funds out there. And that RTD should be seeking those opportunities as well. So
those are our thoughts on the long-term funding. And then the very last one gets to this stakeholder
expectations.
We recognize right now we have 3A and 3B. The reason we organized like this is in the 3A, where we are
as a project team recommending go out and get more money. But we also recognize that's a real
challenge right now. And so 3B, which we'll talk about, is, well, what happens if you as a policy Board
decide maybe not to go out and get additional funding? Or you try, and it doesn't work out?
So under this scenario, we recognize workforce, workforce, workforce. That is the biggest challenge that
the agency is facing right now. And it is impacting a lot of the ability to meet everyone's expectations
because it's impacting the service levels. I know there's a lot of work that you're doing in these areas.
We're excited about the new collective bargaining unit agreement. So we think there's a lot of good
progress in that area.
What we as a project team are recommending is seeking funding to achieve an aspirational financial
scenario. So that is that the biggest, the boldest, the most impact. Provides you with the most operating
funds. Provides you with the most options in terms of capital expansion and addressing capital concerns.
Here's the challenge though. And I don't think this is going to surprise you. But we are looking at a high
level planning level. We're looking at daily boardings and big picture cost estimates associated with this.
If you as a policy Board decide to move forward, the recognition is they'll have to be very specific in
defining what that looks like. And so as a project team, what we're saying is really need to look at,
especially when you're talking capital investments, you really need to look at those success outcomes. So
as a Board, in partnership with our stakeholders and our regional partners, what does success look like?
What are we trying to achieve with these different capital projects? And then that allows the Board to
make some hard decisions around, well, what is it that needs funding? And what is it that you can afford?
And what is it that you should prioritize?
So this idea of working within the region to refine this aspirational scenario in a way that makes sense,
that sets a clear vision in terms of outcomes, and allows for opportunities for buy-in. So what we are
recommending is a pretty robust outreach effort to really develop clear messaging. We've heard that from
the Board. If we're going out for additional funds, we need to have clear messaging on the benefits of
that. A lot of that comes from what you would include in that aspirational scenario.
And then our final slide on this is what happens if you decide not to move forward. Or heaven forbid you
move forward, and it doesn't work out. That's when we feel, as a project team, what we would
recommend is have to make some hard choices, and you have to communicate those. So under this
scenario, you don't have funding for expansion. You don't have funding to complete FasTracks. You don't
have funding to do a lot of the capital expansion you'd like to do.

This is when you really have to say, OK, this is the best we can do at this time is to focus on other
regional backbone resources, serving the highest demand areas. Really keeping those equity populations
in mind. And really only extending services when you have that transit of supportive development. When
you have the land use density. That's where you would look to expand services.
That partnership program we talked about would convert to more of a-- RTD would supply what funds that
they have. But you would be very limited in funding. And so a lot of that would actually have to be paid
for, and potentially even operated by the local communities and jurisdictions. And then the main thing, I
think, from our recommendation if you're under this scenario would be to clarify this. To tell people.
Because right now, there is certainly something we got from the SOP comments is there is expectations
out there that are well beyond, even with all the money in the world, what you're ever going to be able to
address.
You received comments that said, you need to pick me up at my door and drop me off at my office. You
need to solve all the world's problems when it comes to GHG and all the rest of it. All things that you
absolutely want to contribute to. But you have to recognize under this scenario you wouldn't be able to do
some of that, and you'd have to clarify that. So with that, we've done a lot of talking.
I want to sit back. And we're going to start by talking about the varying Board perspectives. But I also
want to open up the opportunity for any Board members that have questions about anything we've
presented so far. But then I would love to dive in and get your perspectives on what do you think about
these recommendations related to how and when you provide service.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JULIE SKEEN: Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize, Chairman Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to ask the Directors to raise their hands. And be respectful of other
Directors that may have questions. And don't ask nine questions at once. We can always circle back. So
Director Davidson, why don't you go ahead first.
JULIE SKEEN: Terrific.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Chair. And I thank you for the presentation so far. I do have a series
of questions about the financial scenarios. I'll keep them tight. We'll see how we go here, and I can come
back around, Chair, to your point. So just backing up to the financial scenarios, just to help get rooted in
the assumptions, we're going through a fair study and equity analysis right now. Just curious, when
looking at the number of boardings, what fare levels did you generally assume? Did you model in any
growth? Did you model in any decrease? Were you using current fare structure in terms of modeling out
our revenue based on boardings?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. I can give you-- Holly Buck, FAQ. I can give you some more information. We were
pretty conservative knowing that the fare study is looking to decrease the impact of fares to the user so
the likely outcome is not a giant increase in fares. But I don't have the numbers off the cuff. But yes, it
was conservative. And it does grow based on the fact that ridership is growing. But the amount per
person is not commensurate with that.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. OK. Thank you. Even just that general comment of the conservative and erring
on that side is very helpful. Chair, if I may, just a few other ones I think might-VINCE BUZEK: Go ahead. You bet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Another comment that was made was that we
looked at sales tax as being the most effective rather than property tax as well as others. I'm just
wondering, could you comment with property tax in particular, was that anything to do with complexity?
Implementation and management, political feasibility of will, the actual amount, and the return on
investment. What is what was the reasoning that sales was more effective?
HOLLY BUCK: You're right. It was based on amount of money. So what we found in the analysis was that
it would take several of the other funding sources put together. Even with bringing several of them
together, it didn't meet the deficit that we were identifying. So that's not to say that you don't want to do it.
But the easiest way was following the same path that you're on today. You're only trying to increase the
sales tax versus trying to bring it in from many different angles. So sort of ease the complexity of doing it
another angle, and the amount that you're able to come up with from the sales tax.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That makes sense. OK. Thank you. And just another quick one because I think I know
the answer to this. I think we're all aware that the initial intent to FasTracks in the ballot language was to
roll back the 0.4% portion to only what's required for operation and maintenance once all capital projects
are complete. Obviously, the story has changed quite a bit with our cost structure. I'm assuming that you
didn't model in any decrease to the 0.4% regardless of the completion of FasTracks given that we would
likely need this for operations and maintenance of FasTracks? Is that a fair assumption that we didn't roll
any-- we remained at 1% through 2050?
HOLLY BUCK: You remain at 1% through 2050. And even more so, your base system, your 0.6 is
actually funding FasTracks. So you're not coming down on FasTrack side. The base system is being
moved over to get to that even level.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. I have another question. But I think it's a
broader one, and relates to some of the discussion to follow. So I yield the floor. And thank you, Mr.
Chair, for entertaining multiple questions. Appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Davidson. You were quick. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Holly and your team, thank you so much. This is
really a great presentation. I want to talk about a couple of things in terms of clarity. I think that you're
right. We've got to be absolutely clear about what we are dealing with today. And looking at the new world
in which we're living after the pandemic. And the workforce changes with more people working from home
who are white collar workers.
I guess as I looked at all of your components in terms of improving customer service and partnering, I
think other elected officials will have a huge role in partnering with us to disseminate information and
options to their communities. And I guess from my perspective, I am more concerned about the state of
good repair because if we don't have viable service available, new service won't work at all because we
will have kind of missed the whole point.
I have a question about did you all look at all about making RTD a smaller geographic footprint? Because
I think that one of the big issues is the geographic footprint that we serve, which is huge. And let me just

go one more and say when you're talking about grants and other funding opportunities, could we look at
health grants and climate change grants? Because of the impact that transit has in terms of climate and
health for folks getting out of their cars. Not doing all of those things where we can really show the impact
of transit in those two areas. And that might be a whole new bucket of dollars that we never thought of
before.
But one of the other biggest issues for me is doing a realistic communications plan. Because I think you
are absolutely right. I think people are going to be really disappointed thinking that we're going to do all of
this brand new innovative. And we really need to be very realistic out of the chute saying, here's what we
have. This is how we need to work together to move forward for all communities. So I just want to say
thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thanks, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. As I understand it, we're going to have discussion in a bit. So I just have one
quick question on your slide 11 that you had up a bit ago. Regarding the BRT and in both scenario one
and two, you show 11 new BRT routes. But no RTD capital or additional operating costs. Does that mean
somebody else is operating them? Or what's that part mean?
HOLLY BUCK: I can pop in here. Holly Buck FHU. So the DRCIG Fiscally Constrained Plan, the
assumption in there is thaT-- and those are the 11 that we're talking about that are already identified in
that DRCOG plan. That they're RTD does not have-- so these are just RTD's costs. RTD does not have
any capital investment in those. So those are coming from local communities, or federal grants and grants
of some sort. And that the operating costs, they don't incur any incremental operating costs over what
they're providing today.
So if you were to look at, say Federal Boulevard. Using Federal Boulevard as an example, putting BRT
along Federal Boulevard, there would be no incremental additional operating costs. There's already a lot
of service on the ground. That service would be translated into a BRT route. But it wouldn't be twice as
much service say as what's happening. So those are the assumptions that are in the background.
SHELLEY COOK: It seems like there's a pretty good match on federal. I'm not so sure that would be the
case on all the additional 11. Is that true? Are there some where there would be a sizable option?
HOLLY BUCK: That is the assumption. My understanding is that's the assumption that's in the DRCOG
financial plan today.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
HOLLY BUCK: So we have not changed that for this. And as you can see, there wasn't. I think if we
would have looked and seen that there was some money coming available, that absolutely would have
been an early priority to put money towards some of those BRTs. But there's, as you can see from this,
there wasn't money to put over there.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thanks, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have what I believe are four questions. Maybe
none if I can't talk. One thing. If you would look please to packet page 10. I think it's your slide 10, or
maybe it's not slide 10. I'm not sure which number it is. But it's the one that shows the SOP network. And

yes. There we are. That one. And I recognize perhaps this relates more to the SOP than the Mobility Plan
for the Future.
But in looking at that chart, if you look at the second row, the middle set of service hours per equity zone
capital. I was wondering if someone could explain to me what is going on where Boulder presently and as
contemplated is twice the service hours per equity zone capita than the other regions? Except a little less
than twice for the Southeast.
HOLLY BUCK: I can pop in here. Holy Buck. FAQ. So part of what you'll see here-- and I don't have a
calculation for this. So maybe as you've brought this up, this would be good to have information on.
Boulder does buy some additional service. So they have some additional service that comes through that
way. I cannot tell you though that is actually proportional. I'm not I'm not sure of that because I don't have
that number. But that might be something that we should look into and give you some information on that.
The other thing that you'll see when you look to the left, the charts to the far left, the Boulder County area- that entire subregion-- just has a very low volume of social equity. Anybody identified as a social equity
zone group. And so when you go to that per capita number, it shoots up pretty high.
DOUG TISDALE: OK I understand that. That's helpful. Thank you. And again, this is not a pop quiz. I
expect that some of these questions will be taken under advisement. And further information can be
made available. Because an additional question as relates to this chart. And I want to preface this
question with an important disclaimer. Ridership is not the sole metric. And we should never be entirely
dependent upon ridership. And I think our strategic plan begins to effectuate some of that thought. And it's
important.
I would like to know, however, if in looking at the SOP network illustrations you have here, there was any
consideration as to the ridership per zone? At least as another data point that we might look at when
considering these questions.
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. So we did not model. We didn't use the travel demand model to look at the
ridership for this particular SOP. We did look at it when developing the SOP. And we used that to inform
how the SOP routes were designed. So when you see the focus on the backbone network and trying to
focus service on more access, 15 minute access, to social equity populations, that came from the
modeling. And the modeling. And I don't know if I'm going to get this right off the top of my head. But the
modeling indicated that this focus, we could achieve about a 15% increase over what we would have
achieved if we did not take this path.
So you should see some pretty substantial increases in ridership using the design standards that have
been put in place for the SOP.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you for that. Then an informational point. And then one final question.
The informational point is, in 2018, we had in excess of 97 million annual boardings. That works out to
about 269,000 boardings per day. And I note that in looking at even the RTD fiscally constrained, we're
significantly below that number. And it's just an observation. We note, for example, about 200,000 daily
boardings in 2020, which was down significantly from what we had in 2018. Which is the last year as to
which I had easy access for those data.

The last question is, in terms of looking at the various plans, have we taken into account what our
bonding capacity would be through 2050? And I apologize for not remembering this immediately, but are
we in fact fully bonded out through 2050? Or don't we have a significant tranche that retires before 2050?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. Is there any chance that Doug is out on the line? We have had those discussions.
And I can get more specific information. But I don't dare quote it right now because I don't have it in front
of me. I fear I'll get it wrong.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that.
HOLLY BUCK: But we have been working with with Doug MacLeod on that.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. And that's very helpful. And Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing
me to go on with those points. That's all I have at this moment.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Dircector Tisdale. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. And Thank you to all the team. Just one question. And it may be,
again, one that you don't have at your fingertips. But the first recommendation was prioritize state of good
repair. I think we all realize the importance of that. Did we quantify that in some way? Are we going to an
industry target? What's our target? And how does that compare with what other agencies carry?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. So I can't give you all the details on how this is calculated. But yeah. There are a lot
of industry standards. Your RTD staff has a very detailed list of this vehicle is this old. It has this many
miles on it. And it needs to be replaced. And for every bit of your facilities and everything that you own.
So there's a lot of detail out there. And they know from the FTA standardds that a bus is typically replaced
every 12 years for instance. So yes. They have very good information on that. And it is all quantified. And
that's what was used and put into the financial model.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, First Vice Chair Guissinger. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This question may be a little bit straddling the line between
what's been presented so far, and some of the discussion yet to come. But one notion I know that's come
up in the Reimagine meetings in the community has been this concept of regional connectivity and local
partnerships for local transportation, which I know is something that you also mentioned in the
presentation about local partnerships. Director Rivera-Malpiede asked an interesting question about
whether you considered scenarios that reduce the footprint of RTD.
Just a question as we look at these financial scenarios, and as we consider that feedback, I realize it's not
what's presented here. But did we spend any time modeling or looking at an increase in available revenue
to transit, but perhaps that going to local partners where RTD scales back its focus in some areas, and
leans on local partnerships? I'm just wondering how far-- perhaps I'm not asking the question very well.
But how far we went down the path of modeling or considering the idea that RTD actually reduces some
responsibility, maintains current funding level, and the inherent assumption in that is that local partners
are able to generate more funding for service. Did we go that far as to consider models given the
feedback we had received?

HOLLY BUCK: So I mean, we didn't. Well that's not fully true. We did a bit of modeling around that.
Where we looked to say if RTD were able to put in this really robust partnership program, put some
money towards it, how much additional money could they bring in from local partners? Not that they're
trying to bring it in. But bring it in to the whole region transit network. And try to better serve the needs
that way. So we did look at that some.
And one thing I didn't say when we talked about that RTD Fiscally Constrained Plan is that I talk about it
being the SOP levels of service. But likely, if you were to do that, by the time you get to 2050, the network
by just default is going to have to look different than what it looks like today to meet the needs better to do
anything effectively. So you probably do start to see less of RTD's money going to those local services.
And you're really more focused on putting the R back in RTD as I think Julie said earlier. So that's where
those partnerships could come into place, and generate some additional funds for the region service.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much, Holly and Julie. And thanks for commenting on that. And
thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I guess one of the items that stuck out at me was-- and maybe
I heard it or saw it wrong. But this concept of if we no longer contribute to the FISA account, and if that
money instead went to operations. And so how would we theoretically cut that Gordian knot? I mean,
would we have to go to the voters? I mean this is maybe beyond your purview a bit. And so would that be
a constitutional issue? Because is that raising a tax? Because it's kind of like raising it in one spot and
eliminating it and other. Or is it statutory? Or what do you think?
HOLLY BUCK: So Julie, I might ask you to jump in here. But my understanding of the FISA is that that
was internally directed by RTD in an attempt to support building some of the FasTracks system that was
not able to be built because of financial constraints. So I don't think there's anything voter related that has
to occur there other than the Board would have to agree that is what you want to do. Julie, is that
accurate?
JULIE SKEEN: That is my understanding as well. When the FISA was originally established, it was
literally an internal mechanism of how you're tracking your dollars to make sure that these dollars would
be available over the long term. So I agree with Holly. I do not believe there is a statutory or anything
related to the overall ballot initiative. It was an internal decision in terms of how RTD wanted to track
those operational funds.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you. That's all I have.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. Director Davidson again. Last time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Chair, I just wanted to react to that just to remind everybody. Because I know the
recommendation there was a note in the financially constrained scenario not completing FasTracks.
While I wouldn't be the right one to comment on the legal ramifications, I just want to be mindful for the
Board here that there is language in the hold harmless agreement that does specify a need for certain
types of hearings. So we just need to be mindful to Director Rosenthal's point, as we have comments
around that. I think we should consider that with legal counsel. And be diligent about the way we consider
those scenarios. Thank you very much.

VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Good point. So I have a couple comments. Maybe a question. So with regard to
the seeking other funding, I'll have to say that Director Broom has been banging this drum louder and
longer than anyone with regard to our need to find a more reliable and predictable source of funding other
than an economy driven sales tax revenue base. Which is good sometimes and bad sometimes.
So I'd love to see, if it's possible, you indicated there was an analysis done that showed the 1% sales tax
increase, if that happened, far outshone other forms of revenue. If it's possible, I'd like to see what was
considered and what those numbers look like. And secondly, one of the comments is going to be on the
varying Board perspectives. And I guess it goes to the SOP and the Mobility Plan of the future.
The prioritizing service to equity populations in highest concentrated areas. I've been banging this drum
too. And I know you guys have. Equity populations exist everywhere. Right? And transit dependent
people don't just need bus service where they live. They need it where they need to get to. And they need
to get to work. And things like that aren't within the five mile radius of their home. And in fact, many of
these employment centers are moving out of the core of the city center where a lot of these equity
populations reside.
So that's something I think we need to continue to talk about. And Director Tisdale brought up the issue of
it can't always can ever be only about ridership. And I think the flip side of that is it also needs to be about
coverage. You've got to have that balance of ridership and coverage. So I'll keep banging that drum. So
that's all I have for now. Director Rosenthal, go ahead.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sorry. Just a quick thought as well that I don't think was really brought up is to the
extent that we're receiving funding from the legislature for August for a zero fair month. And I'm curious as
to whether we could say to the legislature, look, we do need funding in the future for maybe a specific
project. To say, look, we will create these community connections with maybe local providers and things
like that. So maybe you could help fund that. So maybe we should also consider a regular ask to the
legislature every year as long as we have a project or something that they would hopefully deem possible
and necessary. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that comment. And that raised another question that I have had. I don't know
if anyone knows the answer to this. But are there other transit agencies similar in whatever way to RTD
that receive regular funding from their state or city as part of their funding source? And are we kind of an
exception that the state doesn't give us anything?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. So I can pop in here on this one. I don't want to use any numbers again. But yes.
There are a lot of agencies that do receive state funds. And we have some data on that we can I think
provide from our analysis of existing conditions. So we can.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Geat. I'd love to see that. Thanks. Thanks so much. I appreciate it. Director Cook,
you're back up.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I thought I'd add some comments relative to what you and Director
Rosenthal had offered. I think it's a really good point that we need to take into account destinations. And I
understood that there was going to be an FTA circular coming out pretty soon. Have we been able to
anticipate that and work toward that? That's the first thing.
The second thing is there's a problem with continuing over time to prioritize service to equity populations
highest concentrated areas because the cost of living in those core areas is driving them. Dispersing

them as it were. And so I think you could see over time serving fewer, and fewer, and fewer. And seeing
others who have been moved out into lower cost of living areas unserved. So that's a conundrum. And do
you have any thoughts about how to address that gentrification?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. Yeah. So we talk about this a lot in the meeting. And I think it's really important to
know that the service development group, Jessie Carter's group, they're always looking at the latest
information on social equity populations and where they live. So it's not a static data set. Now granted, it's
a giant amount of data. So it's not up to the date that day.
But that is being updated regularly for the Census. So we use the Census, and always the latest Census
to look at where people are moving. And you see when people there's concentrations of people moving
around. So it is always trying to keep up with the latest information that is available. Understanding that
there's changing travel patterns as well.
SHELLEY COOK: So Holly, does that mean that we'll unwind service frequency in areas where that
concentration is decreased in our zero sum scenario here in order to increase
HOLLY BUCK: Right.
SHELLEY COOK: That's not what you're you proposing. Right?
HOLLY BUCK: I mean, well. I mean, I think when you look at what the service development group does,
they put things in. And they're evaluating them all the time. It's pretty unusual to see something go down
in service frequency. But not impossible certainly. They do look if it's not meeting their service standards.
They are bringing that back down to be within the service standards, and have a service frequency that
meets the demand that is out on the street. So yes. I mean, it's not unreasonable to-- it's always an
evolving. Somebody referred to it as an art and a science.
SHELLEY COOK: And then how about the destinations? How do you see those being factored in more
and more?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. So the destinations. So a couple of things. And we don't have any destinations on
the Mobility Plan for the Future. So let's just speak to this in the System Optimization. We do. But that's
2050. So let's just talk about the System Optimization Plan. So we have two things that are happening
there.
One, we use all the data. Everything that's on the ground today. Jobs and employment. Jobs,
employment, and household population are all in the model and all taken into account in our System
Optimization Plan analysis. And there's actually another graphic that we did not include in this SOP
network that's on, I think it was on maybe slide seven that talks about jobs and access to jobs.
And then the other thing that we did was you'll recall we used the location based services data. So this is
where people have cell phones, and we can see where-- it's a little bit creepy. But you can see where
people live and where they work. And then the other trips that they make as well. And it's a pretty
amazing amount of data. And it's great.
So what we could see there, and what a lot of the recommendations that were made in the System
Optimization Plan were specifically looking at those social-- we looked at all data. All people. But we also
looked specifically at social equity groups. And we said here is where they're living. That we they live
there from the Census.

And we can take all the cell phones in that Census block. And we can see where they're going. Where
are they traveling. Where are they going to work. That was particularly important to us to make sure that
the routes that we were recommending were aligned with where the people were living and working, so
that they could make those connections. So we had two I would say pretty great data sets to use to
understand those travel patterns, and specifically that destination end.
SHELLEY COOK: So should this read prioritize service to equity populations highest origin and
destination areas or something? Is a question. Thank you.
JULIE SKEEN: I think that's a fair statement because with the LBS data, were we able to track residents
as well as where they were traveling for work and things like that. That's a great point.
HOLLY BUCK: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
VINCE BUZEK: That sounds like it would be more accurate. Thanks for those questions. And for your use
of the word conundrum. Director Williams, you're next.
KATE WILLIAMS: It is a good word. And I'm appreciative of all the work that a lot of people have put into
this. But I am unhappy because I don't see here included in the discussion that I hear all around me every
day, and all of the places that I live and breathe that has to do with greenhouse gas and our future. And
the fact that everybody has to get out of their car. Have to get out of their single occupancy vehicle. And
when they do that, the number one place that they have to go is to RTD.
It doesn't matter if they're in Boulder, and they don't have a train. Or if they're in Parker, and they don't
like us. The fact of the matter is that in the next immediate future, not 2050, not even 2030, but in the next
couple of years-- and first of all, I don't see it any place on this slide. And generically, I don't see it
reflected in the planning that we are doing.
And granted, ridership has gone down. And things have changed. And there's drugs in Union Station. But
this is a fact of life. And the bottom two lines maybe address that somewhat. That we need to partner to
provide community service, and we need to act as a mobility integrator.
But what I'd like to have is another line on there that says, hey, people, we're it. You got to get out of your
car. So I just need to say that. Everybody's beating their drum. And look at Julie and Holly are laughing
because it's not new. They've heard me beat this drum. So thank you for allowing me the chance to add
some greenhouse gas, clean air, zero fare to climate change to this discussion.
HOLLY BUCK: So Kate, I do want to-- Director Williams. I do want to pop in and just say that I did not
refer to it as this. But when we talk about I think on slide 11, that aspirational scenario, we had in our
minds in trying to put that together what can we do that's sort of the biggest thing that we can do so the
modeling in the background to get to this 800,000 number it is a lot of service a lot of investment. And the
idea and what we had in mind was trying to achieve some of those-- support achieving some of those
goals. And see what RTD can do to help with that.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Williams. Is that it. Thanks so much. RTD is the green option. Director
Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Let me start by saying that the Avalanche are 2 to 0. Woo. So that's
exciting news. But I do want to talk about a couple of things. And one of the things that I keep thinking
about in thinking about what Director Williams was talking about in terms of greenhouse gases and stuff

is that this is our time to have the opportunity to really kind of showcase our leadership in terms of the
whole transportation industry. And perhaps this is the time we need to hold a summit with our key elected
officials across our region to talk about the realities of what we're dealing with, and the partnerships we
need to bring together. And how can we be working together for the good of the entire community.
I just think that when this Board started working towards changing RTD, and bringing in a new General
Manager, and looking at Reimagine RTD, and looking at the realistic things that we are dealing with, this
is also our opportunity to stand up and say, you know what? We need to be working together.
And so we're going to be calling a summit, for instance, to come together and develop strategies on how
we move forward to achieve the best transit service for the entire region. I just think this would be an
opportunity. And that communication and developing strategies is probably the most crucial thing in my
mind because if we serve-- and I've always said this. If we serve our most vulnerable communities, then
we will have achieved being able to serve the entire population. So I would just like to put that out there.
Thank you so much. And go Avs.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments and that update. Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know, I agree with Director Rivera-Malpiede that we would
really need to have a summit. And I hate to be a wet blanket. But some of the things I'm hearing with
regard to any kind of a tax increase for RTD is a nonstarter for a number of not only our partners, but the
general public.
And so I'm thinking that if we were to hold a summit and rally around the realities of the RTD situation, it
would be a good place to start with that political discussion. Because I mean, the aspirational scenario is
basically doubling the tax that we already have, which people are already grumbling about. And there's a
lot of work that needs to be done for RTD to build back the trust of the traveling public.
Number one, in order to increase ridership. And number two to have any chance at all of getting
something like that passed. So again, sorry to be the wet blanket.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. I just wanted to clarify. And I don't know if we're just
kind of taking this as silence means, yes. But I did want to just kind of vocalize as a director that I would
support the recommendations of the staff when it comes down to prioritizing equity populations. I know
there's been a couple of questions regarding potentially where these populations are going to be going.
And potentially, it sounds like from Chair Buzek's and Director Cook's kind of questions that maybe kind
of rewarding that.
But I just wanted to kind of point that out. And I am curious if there are any other Directors who would be
going against that viewpoint? Or is this kind of what our vision is going forward is truly taking care of the
backbone of our system? Because I think that's going to be going to how we build good faith with our
community partners.
And I'm all for community partnerships. And I think it is maintaining the organization. And then our
established routes as they are. And then looking forward to expanding upon it. But I would be just kind of
interested to hear from other Directors if there's other proposed solutions to it. Or again, there's silence.
Yes. And we as a Board are supporting the idea of backing our equity populations. That would just be my
only comment. Thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Director Bouquet. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just a couple of thoughts. Throughout the evening, we've talked about
partnering with cities and other people to provide local transportation. The one thing, where's that money
going to come from like at the city level? The gas tax is a dying breed. I mean if everybody's going to be
driving around in electric vehicles, there won't be any grants coming from DRCOG anymore because
that's where they're distributing funds. The sales tax is also suspect. More and more of what you spend is
spent on services that's not taxable. It's going to take a huge change in our tax system to cover
transportation costs going forward.
We probably need to look at the income tax quite frankly. That doesn't sound very attractive to a lot of
people. But over half of the people in Colorado don't pay income taxes. And so it'd be maybe an easy
target to go after in an election. Those people you could just say, well, it's not going to cost you anything.
We just need to have more conversations with the cities and the counties as to how they plan on
financing transportation in the future so that we're not at crosswise with them when we get ready to go to
the voters. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Director Broom. Appreciate those comments. I'm going to go to Director
Whitmore, who hasn't had a chance to speak yet.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. We keep talking about the necessity for partnerships. And we
have some. This question is kind of related to the former question about comparing to other agencies.
Certainly we don't need the answer tonight. But partnerships with local entities mean more commitments
of monies from local entities. I'm just curious since we don't seem to have much financial support from the
state other agencies do, what is going model for partnership numbers in other thriving transit agencies?
Again, I don't need a quick answer tonight. But it just seems like we talk, talk, talk about partnerships. The
partnerships mean money and local commitment. What is the model that works? And is there any ability
to flesh that out with our local partners. Obviously, I think number one priority to do this is trust. And we
are certainly working on that each and every day. So just the thought. I'd entertain input on it. Or it can be
delayed for later discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chair, for the time.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for the questions. And Ms. Skeen or Ms. Buck, if you have that data
available, you can get that to us down the road, that'd be great. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thank you I'm hearing a lot of pieces that I think are really interesting and
thought provoking about different ways that we might raise money, or have a summit to consider different
ways. And it reminded me that a couple of years ago, there was a series of discussions at the state level.
And I think going into the big funding bill, SB 260 that funded transportation, the conclusion was that it
would take a lot of different pieces. It may be fees as Director Broom has mentioned several times.
Maybe a combination with De-Brucing requests to the state. Local partnerships.
But I think putting some thought in a variety of pieces could be another tax. But we're not going to get-- I
tend to agree with Director Catlin that it's going to be tough as a single way of funding. So I would just
encourage us to think about a building block approach. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, First Vice Chair Guissinger. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to react to a couple of Directors here. And Director
Bouquet, I heard you that you were looking for some consensus or comment. I did want to just kind of--

love the idea of the summit because I want to talk a little bit about the local partnership piece. And
Director Broom asked the question of where some of that money might come from.
I think one concern I have is certainly very supportive of the fact that as a transit agency we need to focus
on folks who don't own cars that are on our system. And on equity populations who are in that situation as
a matter of need. I have a growing concern that as we continue to focus on concentration, the way our
region has grown which is out of control of this agency, is such that folks not only have been pushed out,
which is something we've talked about, but are sprinkled throughout the region. And it's a difficult
conversation because as we've scaled back, we have folks that have lived in areas for quite some time.
I've heard from numerous, actually, just within the last few weeks who kind of have this sense of death by
1,000 cuts.
So we have to just be very thoughtful, I think, in terms of how we address the need of folks who need us. I
think local partnerships is a thing that we need to talk about. Going for a tax to Director Caitlin's point and
Director Guissinger's emphasis is going to be really difficult as RTD and statewide. Local, I don't want to
get out in front of my skis of what polls have shown in individual cities. But there is some reason to
believe that some cities, at least throughout the region and counties, may be able to raise additional funds
locally, which is why I asked my earlier question about whether we considered any models of funding
moving towards them.
Case in point, we have entire areas of areas I'm very familiar with-- please don't take me as being
parochial. I just I know them much better. We have areas of Broomfield, areas of Erie, that have no
coverage at all. And we do have folks who require service. Just this past week, I had the pleasure of
working with one such individual. Does not own a car. Needs access to work at a Walmart. Doesn't have
coverage. And the city and County of Broomfield was able to deliver to her an easy ride service, which is
a locally funded service for folks who are over the age of 60, or folks with disabilities that are over the age
of 18.
And I just wanted to emphasize that because I think that the notion of a summit-- finally, I'll just react to
Director Rivera-Malpiede-- is a very good one. That we may want to dialogue with some folks in the
region who may have data on what their cities might be willing to do. Might be interested in doing. Where
I think the word of trust was brought up where trust may be higher than what we have as RTD. And that
comes to a bullet on here that really jumps out at me, which is operating this high capacity, high quality
regional backbone service leading hand in hand with local partners, and perhaps local agencies down the
road. I think we need to really dig into that as a Board to address this matter. I thank you very much. I'll
stop my chattering. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for the chatter. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. So Director Davidson brought up the idea of partnerships. This is the one area
where I have some hope based on examples we've seen. The one I'd like to talk about right now is the
Smart Commute Metro Norris FlexRide. They proposed service in an area that didn't have service. They
did some good analysis. Worked with DRCOG to identify origins and destinations. And then we're able to
tweak that service, so that now it's just very successful.
Do we know how the partnership framework is going to be set up? Do you guys have any detail on that?
Is that going to be in something that we're going to see later? I mean because the devil's in the details on
this. If it's going to be onerous, if we're going to devolve the entire responsibility to the local communities-I asked that question at DRCOG. If we go to this scenario, and it's what we're forced to rest on is

partnerships as one way to expand service, will you, DRCOG, be able to shift your funding toward the
local communities? And there was some agreement. But I didn't hear a firm commitment to that. So what
are you all anticipating for that partnership piece?
HOLLY BUCK: So I can jump in here. Right now, and it's still draft. Right now, the partnership structure is
set up to have an annual call for projects. The initial recommendation that of course, has not gone to the
Board yet to see if you would approve it, is the idea that the Board every year would identify a portion of
perhaps your operating budget or some amount of money that would go into this to fund this grant
program. And then it would be-- the partnerships come through that grant program. They're evaluated.
Everybody submits through a-- just kind of like you would do an FTA grant of sorts. Perhaps not that
onerous.
And then they're evaluated by RTD staff based on a set of criteria, and selected to move forward with.
And then the RTD, of course, would continue to support the partners with technical analysis and all of the
other good stuff that goes with it.
SHELLEY COOK: So do you-- I'm so sorry. I interrupted. Do you see the criteria echoing the policies
we're setting here? Because I would hope we could loosen up a little bit in order to allow the opportunity
for innovation and service delivery in areas that we aren't prioritizing, but that have some promise if the
locals can identify a way to do it.
HOLLY BUCK: Right. Again, it's all very draft. But the criteria that we have set out follow the guiding
principles that we're set forward for this project and adopted by the Board. So they follow that. But I think
that we can bring those, and we can have more discussion about that.
SHELLEY COOK: To Director Williams's point, we have this broader concern with greenhouse gas
emissions. And that will require attracting choice riders I think. Especially sometimes when they live in far
outlying areas where there may be better yields. So I just will say that at this point I would hope the
criteria wouldn't be as fixed as that. That we could open that up.
So I like the idea of a summit. Just say thank you. It does seem like we have to find a way to address this
gap. And bringing people together is a good one involving the important parties. I still think that City and
County of Denver, we can talk about that it's an important-- it's the hub. Major. Tonight, everybody is
going to downtown Denver because of the Avs game. And it remains a major employment center.
But to the extent we're concentrating our services further within the City and County of Denver via both
that high capacity regional backbone service that has a hub and spoke system, and through the existing
core service, that you run 15 or 10 minute service. And you're going to get ridership. You've got that
chicken and egg thing.
So I think it's worth in that summit in some way to talk about whether we can address regionally in the
way that Hickenlooper and Hancock have talked about. Working as a region to address the needs that we
have, and seeing if there are dollars somehow that we can identify. Or value capture that we can identify
as potential new revenue sources. So thank you. That's for right now. Thanks so much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. We've got two more speakers. And then let's try to get through
the rest of the presentation, and have more questions at the end. So Director Rivera-Malpiede, go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep this really short. I'd like to address Director
Bouquet's issue around gentrification and equity issues. And I think that from District C, one of our biggest

concerns is gentrification. And that a great number of our communities have been dispersed furthest out.
It has always been my greatest concern that folks who work minimal jobs with the lowest wage fares
would have to move out the furthest, and pay the most to come in and cook food for folks.
I will tell you that I'm also a Transportation Management Association director. And we have a partnership
with the City of Denver, and we started a shuttle system in the Montebello community. And that has
proven to be very, very successful. Yesterday, we serve 250 people on a call a ride service where we
hired community members to drive these shuttles to the eight line and other major components in the
RTD service. And I think that we are now currently trying to develop the same strategy for the Globeville
Swansea Alere community.
But let me just always say this because I think it's really imperative. Low income community members
who are transit dependent have always paid whatever we, the Board, have deemed to them was the
highest amount that they needed to pay. They have never questioned it. They have never advocated for
anything more because they are survivalists. And they just need to get to and from work. And that has
been the whole mission of my career, and how I've wanted to work on this RTD Board.
I think that this issue around having a summit is our opportunity to stand up as an RTD Board of Directors
and say we are the transportation experts for the region. And we need you to partner with this for the
good of the entire community at all levels. And we need to bring everything out to have a really, really
solid conversation about the realities we're all dealing with. Because it's no longer just about getting on a
bus or a train from point A to point B. But we are dealing with serious ramifications around mental health
issues, around unhoused communities, and around affordable housing.
But RTD and transit has become the backbone for the ability to be able to access all of those services.
Right? So I think this is our time to stand up and say, we're going to take the lead. And we're going to
move forward together in unison with the entire community. Because we know our people. We know who
we're serving. We know the needs of where people need to go to and come from. And we have that
crucial piece that will make our communities successful regardless of what district we're talking about.
Everybody is dealing with these same issues. And I think if we can come together and lead that charge,
we're going to come out of this so much stronger than we know that we are capable of doing Thank you
Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go Andy. The Avs only scored once. But Andy scored about four times there because
right here on my notes is the same to note that. In response to Director Whitmore, the DOTI, the Denver
Office of Transit and Infrastructure is building their own system. Not just one that Director RiveraMalpiede is talking about. But they are planning ahead. Boulder's been running some of their own routes
for years. So everybody in the state of Colorado. We're not the only transit agency in the state.
And other transit agencies are looking at these same issues. And have had some very interesting
successes. They're starting to run electric vehicles. They're starting to do first mile, last mile situations. So
this discussion is relevant. I don't, frankly, see why we would fund anybody. I think that they should fund
themselves and use us as a backbone. And use the lessons and the expertise in the service that we have
already. And in terms of equity, everybody breathes the same air.
The quality of our air has nothing to do with where you live. Or maybe it has something to do if you're in
Elyria Swansea. But it doesn't care what color you are or how much money you make. And the issues

that we are facing are going to highlight RTD as being extremely equitable. That we are providing transit
services, a social determinants of health, to everybody in our region. And I'm with Angie. I think that our
day is coming. And that all of the time that we have all been so beat up and unappreciated, RTD is safe,
clean, and mostly on time. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you Director Williams. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just briefly in the interest of equal time, let me
point out that our partnerships also include the Inglewood Art and the Lone Tree Link. So I speak on
behalf of Director Bouquet and myself in noting those partnerships. Thank you. That's all.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Good points. Ms. Skeen and Ms. Buck, will you continue and conclude your
presentation, please?
JULIE SKEEN: Absolutely. Absolutely. Thank you. This has been a wonderful discussion. We've gotten a
lot of feedback. In the letter that you will be receiving from your CEO, there is contact information for me
as well as Bill Sirois if you have any additional follow up questions. We would love to continue getting
feedback on the recommendations specifically. And so outside of this conversation, I do you think we got
some good direction.
But if anybody's interested in sharing some of that information with us, we sure would love to see it.
Specifically around recommendations for Board perspectives recommendations. It seems like there's a lot
of energy and consensus around filling that funding gap. So hearing a little bit more about that, we've
gotten some good discussion around there. And then getting into this concept of the significant public and
stakeholder expectations. What would that look like? Is it the aspirational financial scenario that you'd be
interested in pursuing. So any additional feedback that you'd be willing to share with us on those topics
would be absolutely fantastic. It's a great discussion for tonight.
I really only have a couple of slides left. Next steps. So we are in our study session tonight. You will be
receiving the final draft SOP for your consideration. As well as an initial draft of the Mobility Plan for the
Future. We are continuing with our working group sessions. We have two more Technical Working Group
and Advisory Committees. One in June and one in August.
We would love some comments on the Mobility Plan for the Future. And again, my contact information as
well as Bill Sirois will be in the information that you'll be receiving soon. And then we'll be coming back to
that in July. So on the 13th, we'll come and talk a little bit about the draft SOP. And on the 26th, that will
be your opportunity for the final determination of how you want to move forward with that. So we're
looking forward to those meetings.
And then we just wanted to leave this. This Is something you've seen before. But just as a reminder, we
got into some really very specifics tonight because they were really focused on what you as a policy
Board should be considering at the major level. But just as a reminder, this is the vision that the project
team has sort of compiled based on feedback from all the public meetings we've had. All the working
group meetings. All meetings with our elected officials.
But this concept that in 2050 we are looking at RTD being an employer of choice. We recognize the
workforce issue. Hopefully, it will be resolved by then. But it's something you always be taking into
consideration. Focusing on financial health. Focusing on that high quality, high capacity service. Focus on

those who need it most. That integrator role that we've talked a little bit about. That partnership role.
We've had a lot of great discussion about that. I think that's a real key to it.
But then, not forgetting some of the innovation. Having our team really be looking at leveraging emerging
technologies. And to Director Williams point, always keeping those state climate action goals in mind, and
how can RTD support those overall efforts. So just kind of leaving you with that vision that at least that's
your project team and your staff we are envisioning for 2050. As well as some of the specifics we got into
with our policy determinations tonight. So with that, I'll hand it back to you Chairman Buzek. Any other
questions? Thoughts?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Thanks so much for the presentation. And let's get final comments or questions,
please. Great. I think we have most of them just two minutes ago. So that's great. Seeing none. I want to
thank the team for your hard work on this long process.
CEO GM Johnson, do you have anything that you need to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No. Mr. Chair. I just echo your sentiments in reference to the project team, and the
hard work that they've done. I think listening to the comments that you guys brought forward, very fruitful.
And look forward to the suggestions and recommendations you put forward coming to fruition, especially
the summit. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams, I see you there. Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd just like to ask everybody to stick around for the next meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: That's right. We do have another meeting after this. Director Rivera-Malpiede, go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's just Avalanche, 3. Bulls, 1. Woo hoo!
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Good deal. And thanks again. And remember, Directors, if you think of things after
this moment, please contact the team or Mr. Sirois. And forward your questions, comments, concerns.
And with that, I will say, are there any other matters to come before the Board for this study session? No.
Seeing none, I'll entertain a motion to adjourn. Director Williams, do you accept the motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's a motion, and a five minute break.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, it's going to be a motion-DOUG TISDALE: Second to both of those.
VINCE BUZEK: Seconded to both of those. And any no votes to either of those? OK. Good deal. So five
minute break. Come back at 7 whatever 8 and 5 is. And see you guys later.
JULIE SKEEN: Bye, everybody. Thank you.

