2022-06-07
Operations and Safety Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Wednesday, June 7th Operations and Safety Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM. Attendees, please mute yourself unless you are recognized
to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening. Committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are
being held remotely via Zoom until further notice and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website. You can visit RTD-Denver.com to find those. A live stream of this meeting is also available
via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
There's [INAUDIBLE] staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they
would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6. I know it's
easier said than done, but it's supposed to work.
I would now like to call the role for the committee members. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal did let me know that he is coming, but he will be a few minutes late.
Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Mic check, mic check. I'm present.
[LAUGHTER]

KATE WILLIAMS: You're OK. I hear you. I am having a hard time seeing who else is here. Are there other
directors present? I see Director Catlin, Director Tisdale. Who else am I missing?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guzman.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guzman, good evening. OK, I think that's all of the extraneous directors who
have joined us. We're now going to go to the public comment period, which is for anyone who would like to
address the committee regarding any topic that is listed in the public meeting agenda for this month and for
the immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone. Tai-Shrae or Jillian, whoever is running this from the background, are there any hands raised?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: We have one hand raised, M Scott Ramming.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ah, Mr. Ramming, the staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. I just want to
remind you that by participating in this process you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded,
your comments will need to be submitted in writing, and that can be done to the Board Office at
RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
Please note also that during public comment, this committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors
or staff may contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow
up. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their name. Each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Mr. Ramming, if you would please state your name, you may proceed.
AUDIENCE: Yes, are you able to hear me? I don't see settings where I start my camera.
KATE WILLIAMS: I hear you just fine.
AUDIENCE: OK, I'm Michael Scott Ramming. I'm a resident of the Eastside Call Neighborhood and District
C, speaking on my own behalf. I just wanted to express my gratitude to the ADA Manager's Gabe Christie
to Civil Rights Director Carl Green Jr. and a transit-oriented community Senior Manager Bill Sirois for
opening the topic of bus stops and amenities there that, according to your RTDs 2021 National Transit
Database submission, more than 64% of your boardings are onto buses.
And so the bus stops are an opportunity to make a first impression as, if you've looked at the packet, that
doesn't always happen. And as a frequent rider, I often feel frustration of if I will call the customer service
line to just find out that, oh, this bus stop that I'm complaining about isn't managed by RTD. And I have to
hunt through some local government structure to find who I should be talking to. So thank you for the
commitment to do more coordination in the future.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Word office, do we have anyone else with their hand raised to speak?

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there are no additional hands raised, and there was one email from Andy
Bazelon.
KATE WILLIAMS: And that email will be added to the transcript if anybody who wants to look at that. With
no other participants, we will close the public comment section at this time. The next part of tonight's agenda
is information from external entities. Oh, Director Whitmore, I see your hand is up. I apologize.
TROY WHITMORE: Just wanted to make note that Director Rosenthal joined us right after the roll call.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Good evening, Director Rosenthal. There's no information from
external entities during this committee meeting. There are no recommended actions this month. But we do
have two discussion items on the agenda this evening. The first discussion item is the 2022 safety
performance review. I'd like to ask Leah Riley, our Chief Administration officer, and Dan McClain, our Chief
Safety Officer and Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental-- nice title-- to give us some presentation
on this item. Leah?
LEAH RILEY: Great. Thank you so much. Let me share my screen so we can get going here. All right, can
someone confirm you can see my screen? Perfect. All right, again, Leah Riley. I'm the Chief Administrative
Officer, and I'm joined by Dan McClain. And tonight we're going to be providing you an overview of the
safety programs and within the agency with a focus on regulatory requirements and our performance in
2022.
So first I'm going to cover federal requirements, and then I'm going to turn it over to Dan who will cover the
2022 performance. And Dan's also going to briefly discuss the agency's approach to safety management
systems. So in terms of the regulatory background, I'll share with you federal regulations both from the FDA
and the FRA and give a very high-level overview of the specific requirements from each of those entities.
So the FRA has regulatory oversight of our agency commuter rail operations. And the FRA was created in
1966. In response to several fatal rail accidents that occurred between 2002 and 2008, Congress passed
the Rail Safety Improvement Act, which included new safety regulations for rails, such as hours of service
for railroad workers, positive train control implementation, their standards for track inspections, certification
for conductors, and safety at highway rail grade crossings.
In addition, to this act, the Office of Railroad Safety focuses on the following safety criteria. They look at
grade crossings, hazardous materials, mode of power and equipment, operating practices, signal and train
control, and track. The FRA has nine safety management teams, SMTs. And these liaise with the nation's
railroads. So RTD commuter rail is assigned to SMT 7, which is also called Commuter West.

In his role as the Chief Safety Officer, Dan McClain serves as our liaison to the FRA. Dan coordinates
information requests, inspections, and he receives and ensures response of FRA inspection reports. And
he also acts as a reporting officer for the railroad. And I'd like to point out that RTD's commuter rail
operations are unique in that they're defined in a concessionary agreement with the Denver Transit
Partners. Denver Transit Partners operate the A, B, and G lines, and RTD operates the N line.
Title 49 CFR Part 270 requires the agency to have a system safety program plan, which we call the SSP.
The purpose of the SSP is to improve Railroad Safety through structured and proactive processes and
procedures that will support risk management and provide methods to evaluate and respond to all safety
issues. It includes proactive hazard management methods that support continuous safety improvement and
ensures that all applicable federal, state, and local safety regulations and safety requirements are identified
in the plan and addressed. And it represents the railroad safety philosophy and cultivates a robust safety
culture from the most senior officer throughout all levels of the organization.
The SSP is applicable to all aspects of RTD commuter rail, including Denver Transit Partners. It also
includes any contractor or subcontractor performing any function covered in the SSP. Regarding safety
oversight, FRA regulations distinguish between reportable and recordable accidents or incidents. So
recordable, there's three categories. There's a highway rail grade crossing incident, which is defined as any
impact between on-track equipment and highway user to rail grade crossing. And this includes all modes
of surface transportation, motorized and unmotorized.
The next is train accidents, and that is any collision, derailment, fire, explosion, act of god, or any other
event involving operating on-track equipment that results in recordable damages that are greater than the
reporting threshold, which in 2023 is $11,500, so fairly low. Damages can be to on-track equipment, signals,
track, track structures, and the roadbed.
The last category is casualties to persons, and this means any death or injury of a railroad employee or any
person or occupational illness of a railroad employee. And so the next level is recordable events. So the
first that I described to you are reportable. Recordable events are ones that are memorialized at the agency
level. And these are defined as a train accident or an incident that doesn't meet the reporting threshold or
an employee injury that does not involve lost time or medical treatment.
So we do investigate these events because they help us proactively identify gaps in procedures and
processes. And we do keep a copy. They are all maintained at the agency level because we can be audited
on them at any time.
So next the FTA holds the regulatory authority for bus and light rail, and the FTA had delegated its
responsibilities as the state safety oversight agency to the Colorado Public Utilities Commission. In July of
2018, the FTA published the public transportation agency safety plan final rule, which requires operators of

public transportation systems that receive federal funds under FTAs urbanized area formula grants, which
that is RTD, to develop safety plans that include processes and procedures to implement safety
management systems, so SMS on the FTA side.
SMS is a comprehensive, collaborative approach to managing safety. It brings management and labor
together. And together we control risk. We detect and correct safety problems earlier. We share and analyze
safety data and measure our performance more precisely. So in 2023, the performance measures that are
included in our PTAS are the mean distance between major mechanical failures by mode, the total number
of reportable fatalities, injuries, and recordable events. And all of these are measured by mode at the rate
per total vehicle revenue mile.
Our targets for performance in the P-task are a 5% reduction of lost time, days due to on the job injuries,
5% reduction of on-the-job injuries, 5% reduction of slip and fall injuries, 5% reduction of injuries from
strains, and a preventable accident rate per 100,000 miles combined for bus and rail to be less than 1.0.
So with that overview, I am now going to turn it over to Dan to go over our data. Take it away, Dan.
DAN MCCLAIN: Thanks, Leah. We'll start with the on-the-job injury incident rates, and these are rates per
100 employees. One thing I want to highlight here is the reason we had total cases in OSHA is total cases
includes all reports of injuries that come into the agency. And we categorize those in three buckets. One is
record only, the other is medical treatment, and the other is indemnity or loss time.
So you can see there we have about 40%, and over the years it's ranged between 30% and 50% of record
only, where people report something happened but don't seek medical treatment or don't lose time. So you
can see the OSHA, which is medical injuries and lost time, decreased in 2022 versus 2021. The other two
numbers at the bottom of the slide are just to give you some benchmarking data. The OSHA urban
transportation data and the OSHA national average come from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. And those
most recently were updated in 2021. Next slide, Leah.
As for commuter rail, as Leah said, the reportable and recordable accidents, as they're defined for 2022,
there was one reportable on G line and six reportables on A line. And as far as recordables, you can see
there was 20 on A line, 0 on B line, 10 on G, and 7 on N line in 2022. Next slide.
The 2022 rule violations and near-misses for commuter rail, again, segregated by line A, B, G, and N. The
station overruns on A were the highest. And then the near misses, two are segregated by line, with most
near-misses occurring in 2022. And you can see-- or on A line. You can see that there was an increase
from 21 to 22 on the A line, G line, and N line of near misses. Next slide, Leah.
These are the FRA inspection reports. As Leah says, RTDC, which is commuter rail, includes the N line
and the Eagle lines. The violations you can see in 2021 the number for Eagles, which includes all three, A,

B, and G. And then 2022, you can see there's decrease in all of the areas on 2022 except for the nondefects,
which there was a minor-- 26% increase for the E line. So trending in the right direction there. Next slide.
Now, we'll shift to bus. These are preventable and nonpreventable accidents, total accidents. And you can
see in 2022 we had a total of 1,087 accidents, which 319 of those were determined preventable. And that's
an increase over 2021. Again, I think there's an increase in service somewhat, but also increase in traffic
in 2022 over the whole compared to 2021, and also an increase in downtown construction. Next slide.
This is shifting to FTA and the PUC reportable events. As Leah described earlier, these events are up.
Primarily, the driver of that number is grade crossing collisions. And 2022, it's up. Next slide. Good news. I
will say I think it was five years ago we had over 70 red signal violations, and it was an issue with the FTA
audit we had with the PUC.
Since then, it's been diligent effort to drive the red signal violations. And red signal violations are when a
train runs a stoplight. And what stoplight says or the red light says is that there's another train occupying
the path in front of you. You can't go. So a significant reduction over the period of time by the light rail
transportation chain. Next slide.
The PUC, because of changes in some of the FTA regulations updated their program standard, and it came
into effect in June 30, 2022. With that, they have required nine new hazard reporting requirements. One of
the hazard reporting requirements were near-misses, and that's when a train operator has to suddenly
brake or stop because there is a trespasser or a pedestrian or something in their path. And as you see, we
reported from July to the end of the year, 54 additional hazards were reported under that. 52 of those were
near-misses on the right of way. Next slide.
At the end of the year on 2022 we did have a full DOT Federal Motor Carrier safety administrative audit. It
was conducted by the Colorado State Patrol. They went through all of our records. They went through driver
files, driver hours, qualification files, inspection records, maintenance records. They did inspections on over
100 of our vehicles. We are the largest DOT fleet in the state of Colorado. And we ended up with some
minor administrative findings.
One of the findings was our crash register that is monitored by the Federal Motor Carrier Association was
really high. And we investigated, and over 50% of the accidents that were-- crashes that were charged to
us didn't belong to us. We just needed to maintain them and get them off. And then some minor
administrative findings. But overall, the auditors were extremely impressed by our maintenance and
operational processes that we had around complying with the DOT regulations and were happy with our
participation. Next slide, Leah.
In 2022, we implemented operational risk management. Again, this is a fundamental tool or a cornerstone
to a safety management system. It allows us to manage risk and prioritize resources and efforts based on

risk in the safety management system. It also allows us to have an equal gauge of what something is. The
term we like to say is interrater reliability so that each person can look at the risk and have a very similar
outcome of where it needs to be.
It also sets a decision hierarchy, as you see there. When we get into the serious high, it's required
management engagement or correction resolution. And this also mirrors what the PUC has put in place in
their new program standard. But it really is a fundamental, a core fundamental tool to make the decisions
of where we spend our money, where we spend our efforts, and how we improve our safety. And we're
working to get more fluent in operational risk management throughout the agency. Next slide. Questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. McClain and Ms. Riley. If you all are finished, I will see if any of the
committee members have questions. And I see Director Ruscha's hand up immediately. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So first I just want to acknowledge that as a director I made inquiries about the report
and asked for the supporting documentation that was referenced. And that was given to me promptly. So I
just wanted to say thank you for that. I am a director who, if given the opportunity, would read 300 pages if
you let her. And I had a general sense of wanting follow up but nothing that could be solved today. And
what would be helpful for me is, I guess, a comment/question is, if we could continue the conversation,
right?
So I see that there are some things that we might need to improve or continue to improve, but I don't have
the clarity in understanding what steps might be taken. And so my comment/question is can we-understanding this was a high level overview-- could staff commit to doing a little bit of a deeper dive,
whether it's an agenda item or maybe a study session just because, for me personally, I feel that safety
committee, this is like a core part of our oversight. Again, I am very satisfied with all the information that
we've received thus far. Would just a little bit more follow up on some of the corrective action that was taken
just to ensure safety of our staff and the public.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I see our General Manager and CEO has some either
questions or comments.
DEBORAH JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Director Ruscha. I will confer with staff,
and we'll discern the appropriate fashion in which to comply with the request, recognizing in short order that
our public transportation agency safety plan will be brought to you all, which is a critical component of all of
this. And that will be forthcoming in July. I want to caucus with them so we can figure out-- because we
could use the P-task as the cornerstone as we go forward. So we will double back, I would say within about
a month or so and figure out what might be most prudent to help you all understand. So thank you very
much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Director Ruscha, more?

JOYANN RUSCHA: No, I'm satisfied with that. I think that's wholly appropriate, and I appreciate the
collaboration and dialogue. And then I had a question that is related to this but wasn't specifically in the
report. So I hope it's OK I bring it up now instead of other business.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I know that we also get safety reports or some data as it relates to paratransit, but
it's not a comprehensive-- or I haven't seen it yet. So I wanted to get clarification on when the committee
will get a similar review. And then to piggyback on that, I'm not familiar when we contract, for example, on
demand and we are utilizing TNCs, which are under a different set of regulations.
If and when or where those contractors, and specifically TNCs, if they are going to fall under the same kind
of regulations set forth either by the state or the feds. So the second was slightly a legal question. I'm happy
with a follow up memo. But it would help me just to understand what our responsibility is in that regard and
also just what kind of information we'll be receiving in the future. And that concludes my questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, that's been a big discussion nationally, how TNCs are regulated or not regulated,
as the case may be. And I think, if we want to have a study session on paratransit and that kind of issues
because we all know that the industry is moving toward more and different forms of mobility on demand. I
think that's something that we can pursue but not tonight. How's that sound?
OK, thank you. Anybody else have questions or comments on this very nice-- thank you, Mrs. Riley, Mr.
McClain for this great presentation. Very well done. Mr. Guzman, I'm sorry, Director Guzman, I see your
hand.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just wanted to get clarification, if I could. There were three things listed, station
overrun, rule violation, and near misses. Can you briefly, succinctly explain what that means for my
understanding? Thank you.
DAN MCCLAIN: So it's-KATE WILLIAMS: Go.
DAN MCCLAIN: OK, Director Guzman. So it is kind of what it sounds like. A rule violation means that a lot
of the operations that we have in commuter rail are designated. We have rules for operators. We have rules
for mechanics. We have rules for all of our employees. And a rules violation would be ones when the rule
isn't followed. The station overrun is when a train pulls into a station, and it's not aligned to where the normal
boarding and deboarding areas are. So the train doesn't stop in time.

And the others are near misses. The near misses are mostly related to trespassers on the right of way.
Much like we said in the PUC or the FDA rules, most of those near misses are that. Is that helpful?
KATE WILLIAMS: I see, Ms, Riley, you have your hand up if you'd like to add to this.
LEAH RILEY: I just was going to add to give you an example of a rule violation so you understand what
that might fall under. A typical example that we see is personnel not wearing the required PPE while they're
in the right of way or a train engineer not obeying a verbal directive that was given by a dispatcher or not
acknowledging that they got the order. That is a rule violation. And sometimes not following a speed
restriction. So those are some tangible examples of a rule violation.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think everybody-- I see Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Hi, so this is part of the printout but not the presentation. And it was accidents or injuries
for staff. And I was wondering if this would be an appropriate time to ask a follow up that was in the printout.
We're in that part of the agenda still, right?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, this is discussion items. We're here to discuss.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
And I also ask you, I promised I wouldn't keep us from tip off either. And so again, I am appreciative that
staff responded because I had asked a follow up, which was what's the breakdown of injuries by department
or job type because we did see-- it looks like we saw an increase. And so what we've been given is the
majority of the injuries-- I'm just quoting from the staff email-- are attributable, sorry, to slips, trips, falls on
screen.
And so on the bus, that was 250, light rail, that's 140, facilities 14, and so forth. And so I was just wondering
if anyone can briefly touch on this. Is there something that we think as an agency we can do to reduce
injury? I could see how, for example, in a maintenance facility, strains could be an issue if folks are lifting
heavy tires or something. But if anyone could just touch on that and maybe just briefly highlight some of the
actions that we're taking to ensure safety of staff and which might include training. I would appreciate that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Dan McClain?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yes, if I may. So let's take both the strain and the slip and fall. I'll start with the slip and fall.
We have had significant decrease in slip and falls over the past three years. It started with identifying the

areas where ice and snow would accumulate, identifying those high priority paths to be cleared when snow
removal is coming. It also ended up having open houses, making people aware of the slips and falls. We
also did a implementation of snow cleats, both on light rail side and the bus side.
So we are making efforts each winter, and actually the efforts start in the fall, to make sure that we're
prepared to address the issues that come from slip, trip, and fall, even identifying uneven concrete areas
because we've had slip and falls on dry. We've done that. As for strains, we're working with Labor Relations
and our health and wellness folks. We started in 2019, late 2019, and we continue to run through the work
requirements that we have, the physical demands of the job.
In 2019, we had made a commitment to try to minimize any lifting that was over 50 pounds to be compliant
with an IOSH lifting equation. With that, we've went through all of these with our physical therapists. We
have a strain gauge. We go out to the shops. We ask them what they do. What's the heaviest they lift?
What's the awkwardness? And we try to redo how they have been in the past.
In the past, it was accepted that, oh, this is just heavy work. We just got to do it. And we look at what are
the alternatives? Where can we get lift assists? Where can we get-- if we have a two men requirement or
two person requirement, we get that done. And we've been doing that sequentially in all of the job
descriptions on the classified side, on the representative side.
So we are taking those efforts with that. Additionally, overall, we have an initiative to-- we've just revised
and updated our event investigation policy. And we are putting together a train the trainer program that will
be completed this fall for all of the supervisors and managers to get more thoroughly to systematic causes
of events that occur in RTD, including injuries.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. That satisfies my question. I just want to express appreciation for our
efforts. Accidents will happen. Of course, we want to prevent them when we can. And so thank you for that.
And I also understand that, as part of our audit process, we will be looking at bus schedules and making
sure that drivers can take breaks because that can also pose a health and safety risk as well. So thank you
for that, and I appreciate all the staff work. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Even though we're operating at an 85% level, it seems like over
the last several years, we've had more accidents than what I can recall when I first got on the board. Is this
a function of having so many new employees?
DAN MCCLAIN: Some--

KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
DAN MCCLAIN: I would say somewhat. We do track the number of events that occur in different experience
ranges, 0 to 1 year, 1 year to 5 years, and through that. And what we see the drivers with over 10 years
experience have less accidents. So in the first five years, we tend to see more events occur with drivers.
So to answer your question, Director Broom, the answer is, yes, we do thorough investigations with the
events that occur.
And the bus team, the training team takes lessons from those and includes those in their refreshers that
occur quarterly throughout the year. So whether it's emphasizing a certain driving principle or sideswipes
or tight locations or left-hand turns, they continue to take that data and adjust the training.
BOB BROOM: Thanks. I guess we need to concentrate on retaining employees. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. That's a goal I think we all aspire to. OK, I don't see any
more hands up, so we're going to move on to the next item. And if I can get there, I'll tell you what it is. It is
bus stops and customer amenities, which is a nice segue from our discussion so far. I'd like to ask Gabe
Christie, who is our ADA Manager, and Carl Green, the Director of Civil Rights, and Bill Sirois, the Senior
Manager of Transit-Oriented Communities to present this item. Mr. Ford, do you want to start off by
indicating which staff would go first?
MICHAEL FORD: I believe Carl Green was to go first on this presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
CARL GREEN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Mr. Ford. I'll go ahead and pull up the
presentation. Right, how are we looking? Is the screen up?
KATE WILLIAMS: It looks good.
CARL GREEN: Perfect. Thank you, Madam Chair. So again, my name is Carl Green Jr., Director of Civil
Rights. And joining me tonight in the presentation is Gabe Christie, ADA Manager, as well as Bill Sirois,
Senior Manager of Transit-Oriented Communities.
So similar to the comment made by Mr. Ramming, as well as other customer comments that we received
over time, we share the same sentiment of moving forward with this endeavor. And the work behind the
scenes to get us to this point by the direction of our General Manager and CEO, we have worked
collaboratively with-- this has been a collaborative effort between Administration, Planning, Operations, and
Capital Programs departments. So I just wanted to put that out there. I know Mr. Ramming mentioned us

three as the presenters. But it's the many hands that make the work lighter. So it has been a collaborative
effort.
So as illustrated with this overview slide, the intent of this presentation is to educate and inform the Board
of Directors regarding the current state of bus stops and amenities within the RTD service area, to share
some of the associated challenges with infrastructure governance, and factors impacting bus stop
accessibility, as well as to provide areas of opportunities to address these challenges through a systemwide bus stop assessment and through collaboration with jurisdictions, Colorado Department of
Transportation, property owners, and other stakeholders. With that being said, I will now pass it over to Mr.
Christie.
KATE WILLIAMS: Can I jump in just for a second, you guys, to acknowledge that Chair Guissinger has
joined the meeting. I don't know if I didn't see her earlier, but I see her now. Thanks, Gabe. You're up.
GABE CHRISTIE: Thank you, Director Williams, and thank you, Carl. Again, my name is Gabe Christie. I'm
the ADA Manager for RTD. And to get started, I would like to provide some context about the current state
of RTD bus stops. Next slide, please.
The RTD service area is 2,342 miles and contains 9,750 bus stops, of which 8,200 are active. Most active
stops have the standard six-sided pole with a route flag. However, most are not equipped with amenities
like benches, trash cans, or shelters. Many stops were installed prior to the passage of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, meaning that they are legacied into ADA compliance.
The large number of stops across such a wide service area makes it difficult to address bus stop
infrastructure improvements, but this is not an issue that's endemic to RTD. Many transportation agencies
across the nation face similar challenges related to bus stop infrastructure governance. RTD does,
however, prioritize bus stop improvements based on feedback provided by our customers with
consideration to available resources. Next slide, please.
The infrastructure governance matrix on this slide identifies the parties responsible for the infrastructure
right of way and maintenance of bus stops. Be it one of the 40 municipalities or the Colorado Department
of Transportation, property owners are required to maintain the stops on their right of way. RTD is
responsible for bus stop infrastructure only where the stop is located on RTD right of way. While CDOT,
municipalities, and property owners are responsible for their respective rights of way.
Furthermore, RTD is responsible for the installation and maintenance of only the sign pole and attached
flag, while CDOT, municipalities, and property owners are responsible for the installation and maintenance
of amenities beyond the sign pole and flag. Next slide, please. Next we're going to take some time to
discuss the challenging factors RTD faces in efforts to improve bus stop accessibility. Next slide.

One of the factors impacting bus stop accessibility is incongruent communication. As municipalities and
other stakeholders add amenities, improve the public right of way, or generally alter the area around bus
stops, they may alter the accessibility of the bus stops. Despite the impact of these changes, they may not
be communicated to RTD by all municipalities. Inadequate maintenance and upkeep of stops and amenities
is another challenging factor. The maintenance and upkeep standards for both the right of way and bus
stops vary, sometimes greatly, across municipalities.
One municipality may prioritize repairs to shelters, while another may prioritize the right of way. One
municipality may complete sidewalk repairs itself, while another may make that the responsibility of an
adjoining property owner. These differing standards and priorities, linked with those incongruent
communication I mentioned earlier, result in the disjointed appearance of RTD bus stops throughout the
service area.
Furthermore, as a result of all of these conditions, RTD does not have complete data or a consistent
inventory of all bus stop conditions and amenities throughout the service area. Next slide. Now, I'm going
to pass it back to Carl to go over the next section. Back to you, Carl.
CARL GREEN: Thank you, Gabe. So despite the inherent challenges, as spelled out by Mr. Christie, this
also presents an opportunity. And it's a critical opportunity for RTD to lead this collaborative effort to improve
bus stops all around, and this will need to be done in close partnership with local governments, CDOT, and
other stakeholders. An initial first step is to ensure that all parties are operating on a common set of facts
by developing a comprehensive system-wide strategy and one that works towards improving accessibility
and equitable access of bus stops within the service area.
To develop this comprehensive strategy for bus stop improvements, staff will formally conduct a systemwide bus stop assessment starting in 2024. A big part of this is to establish a comprehensive set of data in
order to better understand the current state of our bus stops throughout our service area. Coupled with this
is being able to examine the accessibility gaps around our stops.
And lastly, being able to identify a sustainable funding strategy as well as other tasks related to
improvements of RTD-owned bus stops. And last, but certainly not least, this is also going to take a big lift
of doing customer engagement to ensure that our customers are being able to bring forth their concerns
and so we better understand their pain points.
Considering that an overwhelming majority of bus stops within the service area are outside of RTDs direct
control, RTD will need to work hand in glove with various stakeholders to be successful in implementing
this forthcoming bus stop improvement strategy. An existing example of a relationship that can serve as a
model for interjurisdictional collaboration is with the city of Denver Department of Transportation and
Infrastructure.

They recently conducted a bus stop inventory of over 2,700 stops. And by leveraging this relationship, as
well as establishing others across the region, will position us to reduce the amount of bus stops to be
reviewed. And more importantly, this collaborative effort will be a driving factor to ensure we collectively
create a dignified, equitable, and accessible experience for all of our customers. So with that being said,
this concludes our presentation. And we'll now open up the floor for any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. We appreciate all of that good information. I see Director
Ruscha's hand up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So as you might have seen in the news today, there was a
story in CPR Denverite where there was the bus stop on Lincoln and 1st was serviced by third party
contractor, private entity. And I believe they sell advertisements. The stop was just-- it was filthy. It was
constantly filled with trash. It might not have been properly maintained. And she advocated, and the
response from that private entity was to remove the shelter and the amenities.
And that concerns me. And I understand that our current system is very similar to what many, if not most,
transit agencies do. But I know that our public doesn't really care who is responsible for maintenance, who
is responsible for trash pickup, and who is responsible for making sure there's not black ice. So I just want
to state, as a Director, I am 100% in support of this review, and I would be happy to help in any way I can
and advocate for those resources. And I would also just challenge us as an agency to consider taking a
fresh look on how we do handle maintenance because, again, that is a customer service issue. It's a public
perception issue. It's a taxpayer issue.
And I think that the public expects better even though, again, our challenges are not different than I think
what a lot of agencies are facing. I just hate for us to get complacent. So thank you for this presentation. I
wanted to flag that. I guess that was a comment more than a question. But again, I appreciate this, and I
really appreciate everyone's work. And Mr. Green, I know we've talked about this before. I can really see
your dedication to this project.
And I'm not going to cry, but I am very, very appreciative because as a constituent and now a Director, for
years, I have asked this agency to please engage in my communities, to please pay attention when we talk
about concrete jungles and lack of tree lines or lack of amenities. And I will be honest that I think this is the
first time in 10 years, maybe, I have felt like, not only myself as individual, but my community is being heard.
So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Ruscha, for that. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And like Director Ruscha and Mr. Ramming and Mr. Green
and everyone involved with this, I'm really appreciative of the inventory project going forward. I think it's
very ripe for completing the inventory. And then, as Mr. Greene said, looking for stakeholders. This is a

much less capital-intensive project and could lend itself to help from individuals, service organizations,
property owners, and municipalities, as well as RTD.
And I know we have an adopt-a-bus-stop program, which, at best, gets the trash collected by the bus stops.
But I think for a sponsor of a bus stop, it could be a matter of pride to point to, one with solar capabilities or
lighting, whatever. And I think it would be terrific to incentivize investments of both capital improvement and
commitment to maintenance after the inventory is completed. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. We appreciate that input. I see Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Hey, so I'm super excited about this. And if I can assist in any way here in Denver,
please let me know. But also, just following up from our meeting last night with Finance and Planning, there
are currently designs that have, to Director Sloan's point, solar panels that allow the ability to bring Wi-Fi
and 5G services to bus benches that can be installed, which gives us the ability to integrate information
systems on screens about when the next bus is arriving, also allow passengers who are from out of the
country to connect on Wi-Fi services or 5G services on their phone.
And so there's a lot of opportunity here, and I think working with cities and city councils and county
commissioners, property owners, all the same things, there's a lot of great work that could be done here.
And I'm excited to hear that. So thank you for that. And there are some grant opportunities for that too as
far as funding sources go. And we can probably leverage monies with the different municipalities we operate
in to be able to do some of this work. So I'm really excited to hear it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guzman. Director Ruscha, you have your hand up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just had a clarifying question. I was looking back at the PowerPoint, and it said that
the most active stops are not ADA accessible or were created pre-ADA. And does that mean that our most
active, our most used stops are not ADA accessible? Or are we talking about active stops in terms of they're
not a ghost stop? Does that make sense? I just wanted clarification on what that meant.
KATE WILLIAMS: Can somebody answered that question?
DEBORAH JOHNSON: Yes, I'll take that question, Madam Chair. Director Ruscha, what we mean by active
stops are those that are currently stops in which somebody can stand or they're seated that actually have
a bus servicing said stop. So recognizing that we don't have auspices over all of them, some of them may
have been deactivated, but they're on other public rights of way. So we don't have the ability to remove
them because they're not our property.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Ruscha?

JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, and even if this is a range and we don't have the exact data point, do we know
approximately how many of our active stops are ADA accessible, even if it's a ballpark? Or is that something
that is to be determined?
DEBORAH JOHNSON: If I may, it's something that needs to be determined. Hence, that's why we're going
forward with the assessment because we don't have a centralized database in order to share that
information. And I think it's incumbent upon us as we look at various aspects of this through an equity lens.
And Madam Chair, if I can just say something else, just collectively to manage everybody's expectations.
So as we go forward with this assessment, it's critically important for us to have centralized information to
the points that have been raised throughout the course of this discussion. But more so as we talk about
customer amenities and things that of the like, recognizing that our bus stops are interwoven into a transit
network.
Optimally, what we want to do is provide specifications and things of the like. But we want to ensure that
we're able to maintain said amenities. So when there have been discussions about solar and things of the
like, recognizing some of that's within our purview. Some of it's outside of our purview. But that's collectively
decisions that need to be made holistically about the direction in which we'll take. So I just wanted to put
that out there. I've engaged with discussions just today with the Executive Director of Dottie, as we have a
recurring meeting. And I shared with him we were bringing forth this presentation to educate and inform the
Board. But as we go forward, there's a lot of work that needs to be done.
And one other piece that I would like to share with this body just for your edification, that is, we look
holistically at our service delivery model. It's incumbent upon us to create bus stop spacing policies because
right now it's a little disparate because we may get a request where somebody is like, remove that stop.
And I think Director Ruscha had talked about that. But when we talk about having an accessible transit
system, in my experience, I'm accustomed to ensuring that everybody has an understanding within the
central business district, perhaps there's a bus stop every two blocks. Or there's a bus stop every 1,000
feet.
Currently, we don't have that. So collectively, we are going to try to enhance the equity of our transit network
by doing a myriad of different things. So I just wanted to share that in this forum since that question came
up. Thank you very kindly, Madam Chair, for indulging me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. We appreciate that. I'd just like to take Chair's privilege for a minute and point
out to my fellow directors that this is a marvelous opportunity as elected officials to engage with others in
your own individual district to find out who's responsible for what and to let them know that we would love
to have their participation. There are 15 of us, and it looks like two of Carl and Gabe. So I think that we
could probably help here, and I'm happy to talk about that further [AUDIO OUT] offline. Any other questions
or comments here?

OK, seeing no hands, I'd like to thank-- and we did not hear from Mr. Sirois. Mr. Sirois, do you have anything
you want to add?
BILL SIROIS: No, I think Gabe and Carl covered it, and our general manager followed up with some good
information as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you, sir. OK, hearing nothing more on this subject, are there any other
matters that anyone wants to discuss before we go to the Nuggets game? Oh, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to thank the board staff for these lovely little
speakers. There's a noticeable sound improvement, at least with my connection. And I think that will make
for better quality meetings. So if you haven't utilized them, please plug them in because I think you'll be
very impressed, very helpful. So thank you, Tai-Shrae and Jillian and the rest of the gang, and Marie. She's
here too. Appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. I'd like to point out that my speaker is not faulty. It's just
me with a really, really bad cold. So hopefully, next time I will sound better as well. With nothing else up,
our next Operations and Safety Committee meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, July 12 at the same time
and the same location. And seeing nothing further, we are a joined-- adjourned-- woo-- at 6:26 with four
minutes to tip off.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go Nuggets!
TROY WHITMORE: Go Nuggets! Feel better, Chairwoman Sniffles.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, goodbye.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Bye

