2025-04-14
Performance Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good morning. The Monday, April 14, Performance Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 8:32 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Please note that the Committee meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video-recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we are providing communication, access, realtime translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email
to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. I will say that in
Spanish. [SPEAKING SPANISH]
Anyone who would like a Spanish translation may email the same, and you can choose to translate the
CART into Spanish on the upper left-hand side. A live stream of this meeting will also be available via RTD's
YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll of the Committee members. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Vice Chair-- Committee Vice Chair Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am Michael Guzman, the Committee Chair. And I also see, for the record, that we
have Board Chair Bouquet as well as Director Chandler joining us today. Did I miss anybody? OK.
So I would like to open the public comment section to anyone who would like to address the Committee
regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding
month. If you wish to speak, please raise your hand or-- let's see, press *6 to toggle your mute settings.

Jack, do we have anybody in queue? Oh, sorry. During this time, the Committee will not offer any feedback.
And if you choose not to be recorded, we will need to receive a direct comment from you in writing to the
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com address.
JACK KROLL: Hi, Chair Guzman. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. There is no
one present who is desiring to provide public comment, and there were no written public comment
messages sent ahead of time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, with no participants in the queue, we will then close the public comment
period at this time. Recommended actions-- there is one recommended action on our agenda today, and
that is for the 2021 through 2026 Strategic Plan official version, for the Board of Directors to approve the
attached document as the current official version of the '21-'26 Strategic Plan, which incorporates revisions
to the plan previously adopted by the Board on June and October of 2024. Do we have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger, second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I have Buzek as the movement, Guissinger as the second. I would ask
Debra A. Johnson, our General Manager and CEO, and John McKay, Executive Business Partner, to
present this item to the Committee. Thank you. You are recognized.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Greetings to all that are
assembled. I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. I am joined by John McKay,
the Executive Business Partner. And what we have before you today is a reprint, for all intents and
purposes, of the Strategic Plan, recognizing what the Committee Chair introduced as the recommended
action for those.
By way of background, the Board of Directors adopted the agency strategic plan in August of 2021 at a
special Board meeting. This Strategic Plan, allowed this agency to have, more or less, a North Star relative
to the direction in which the agency had decided to go relative to its vision, its mission, its strategic priorities,
as well as success outcomes during the course of the 4-plus years, there's been certain elements that have
been modified, keeping in mind that staff have the authority, by virtue of the Board's previous action, to
adjust relative to initiatives and things of the, to ensure that the agency was adhering and meeting its
strategic priorities in addition to its success outcomes.
Recognizing that this body approved modifications to the Agency Performance Scorecard and input
received by the Office of the State Auditor, the Board acted upon that in October of 2024, keeping in mind
that this body as it currently is seated. We came back before you in February, providing you with a
discussion item, and we are here today to walk through the various elements. I want to reiterate that the
Strategic Plan, in reference to its key components, vision, mission, strategic priority and success outcomes
remain unchanged. There have been modifications to the Agency Performance Scorecard, which basically
align with OSA's recommendations for the financial key indicators.
At this juncture, I want to also amplify that. This Strategic Plan includes photographs of the current sitting
Board, and this will be disseminated to new employees to reflect what has changed since this plan was
adopted agency-wide as of August of 2021. With that, I'm going to yield the floor to Mr. McKay to orient all
those assembled to the changes that you will see incorporated in this current version, which, more or less,
really amplifies our collective actions to be one RTD. With that, Mr McKay, the floor is yours. Thank you.

JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. John McKay, Executive Business Partner. And my plan this morning
is to just scroll through some of the pages of the current strategic plan as printed. This is the version that
the Board members received earlier last week, I believe. This is now reflected in the packet.
I'm starting on page 1 here. This does show our new One RTD logo. And I want to give a huge thanks to
our Marketing department and Communications and Engagement department, overall. They've done
yeoman's work in putting this together.
What this is not is a new policy document. This is reflective of the previous version. There are new narrative
elements. There are new graphics and things like that. And I'll show the old Strategic Plan for comparison's
sake. But this, as General Manager and CEO Johnson said, this is reflective of the vision, mission, values,
strategic priorities and success outcomes captured in the first Strategic Plan printed in August of 2021.
This version does incorporate, as I said, new photographs, new narrative elements. And it does now include
our strategic initiatives for the 2024-2025 cycle. That's a new element that is-- we've revamped that as a
staff over the last couple of years. We have done some strategic planning exercises in order to come to the
current strategic initiatives for the last two calendar-- or performance years, rather, that are reflective of
staff efforts to improve some of the metrics or improve scores on some of the metrics that we capture in the
current Agency Performance Scorecard, which is captured in this document.
As General Manager and CEO Johnson said, the scorecard is reflective of the Board's changes that were
made in June of 2024 and October of 2024. And as she noted, there are 10 new faces on this document
as compared to the previous one. So it was about time for a refresh.
So I'm just scrolling through bit by bit here. We have now inserted this strategy pyramid. This is something
that is used in strategic planning circles to reflect the very top level, top elements of the Strategic Plan, all
the way down to how the employees interact with the Strategic Plan.
This lays it out, I think, pretty nicely for people who are new to it. I think this will be very helpful for, say, new
employees who are coming on Board. And I actually saw a class of new RTD employees as I was walking
in today, and I think there were about 30 or 40 of them down there. So I look forward to making sure that
they get a new copy of this document once approved by this Board.
Scrolling through further, here, as I noted, some of the narrative elements that we've included. Again, thanks
to the Communications and Engagement folks for putting these together, for reaching out, for gathering
some of these great stories that really highlight what the values mean, what the strategic priorities mean.
And I'll keep going here. And again, for each strategic priority, there is a series of elements, of vignettes of
both customer interactions and employee stories, things like that.
In a moment, we'll get to the scorecard. This is the scorecard as previously seen by the Board and approved
in October of 2024. This is located currently on the Strategic Plan website on the RTD website. And all of
these elements are reflected there. And in the Strategic Plan-- sorry, let me take that back. In the
performance dashboard, also on the RTD website, we have the actual scorecard in each of its elements.
And scores associated with those are posted on the website and regularly updated.
And again, like I said, these are the strategic initiatives, as compared to the previous version of the Strat
Plan document itself. In the previous version, there were departmental scorecards and tactics in two
different separate sections. We have morphed as a staff toward these strategic initiatives.

The scorecard itself associated with the strategic initiatives is not included in this because this document,
it needs to be a little bit more flexible. Since we've only reprinted this document once over the course of its
life, it's important to keep that separate so that those elements can be updated regularly as needed so that
we can capture new-- as a staff, capture new metrics and new measures as we're going through the year.
And then keeping scrolling through, I won't stop on each of these pages. And at the end of the book, we
have some of the factual elements that we included in the previous version of the Strat Plan and then
explanation of RTD services, financial overview. And this was reflective of some comments we received
from both members of the legislature and the Accountability Committee back in 2020 and 2021. They felt
that they needed just a top-level view of RTD's budget, and this is a great snapshot of that for elected
officials throughout the district.
And then some of our high-level initiatives, including the Comprehensive Operational Analysis that's coming
forth this year and the Facilities and Fleet Transition Plan, and then some of the outreach elements, just to
show how RTD does engage with community, customers, and how we gather information so that we can
improve our Strategic Plan year over year. And let me briefly switch gears here. I'm going to go back to the
original Strategic Plan.
So this is the one adopted by the Board in August of 2021. This was a very early cut of this document.
There's a slightly updated version of the one that was on the website, but this gives a good overview of
what was seen previously. So as I said, 15 Board members, 10 of whom have changed since this was first
published, the same elements about ridership and service area, things like that.
Vision, mission values did not change. Strategic priorities, success outcomes did not change. Some of the
explanatory elements are changed over here. These are the tactics that I had mentioned. These have been
morphed into the strategic initiatives. And those are, as I mentioned, located on the Board's website or on
the agency's website, rather, on the Strategic Plan portion of the website. And then scrolling briefly-- I'm
sorry for giving everybody whiplash, but I'll just keep going.
And again, this was the previous version of the scorecard that has been updated to reflect the Board's
changes. And at the very bottom, these are the departmental scorecards that were previously included in
this draft plan that some departments still do maintain these. But that's for their own use as a department.
We have moved to the strategic initiative version of this so that strategic initiatives are reflective of staff's
efforts overall rather than by specific, distinct department.
And that's it. If there are any questions about either of the previous version or the current version, I'm happy
to take those, as well GM CEO Johnson.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, Directors, are there any questions or comments at this time? I'll start. I'm
looking at the Office of the State Auditor's report, recommendation number 7. It can be found on that report
on page 81, where it discusses the implementation of a written policy or bylaw, requirements of the RTD
management to consistently provide to the Board performance scorecard updates or Board-approved
performance updates related to performance metrics established within RTD's Board-adopted Strategic
Plan or any other Board-approved or adopted long-range plans.
So to answer that requirement, most of our metrics that are reflected in here under these four key
categories, they are on the dashboard, correct? Sorry, it's a bit of a leading question, but I want to get there
quickly. The second part of that recommendation was for the Board. So Executive Committee members,

because this is bylaw and policy, it would go to your Committee that we needed to outline what changes
RTD management can make to the RTD Strategic Plan or other Board-approved or adopted plans.
So we need to make sure that we are complying with that, because we did agree with that recommendation.
Approving this updated version is the management of RTD coming to us to seek approval of an updated
version of the strategic plan. But we still don't have that policy bylaw in place. So I just want to put that on
the record because we did agree to making that change.
And the clear role of the Board-- clearing up the role of the Board Office in this process, including Board
requests for updates or helping to ensure RTD management, provide the Board with regularly and timely
updates regarding RTD's progress toward achieving strategic priorities. I'm bringing those items up because
this is all rolled into the same piece of work, but it is handled in different Committees, unless we decide to
do something different. So John-- Mr. McKay, excuse me, go ahead and respond because you might have
something that we need to discuss.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I will defer to Jack Kroll at the Executive Office for-Executive Manager of the Board Office, rather, on the second part of your statement there. The first part, I
will say that in the Board report for the Strategic Plan, the Board report that accompanied the Strategic Plan
this time around, we did delineate between the items that staff is eligible to update, any items that the Board
must approve before the strategic plan can be updated, which is really the reason we're bringing it before
you today, because staff recognizes that changes cannot be made at a high level to the Strategic Plan
without the Board's involvement.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chairman Guzman. So to answer the question of which Committee this notion
of defining the Board's role in long-term strategic planning best fits, it's actually in the Performance
Committee. And you all, with the assistance of the Executive Office adopted a bylaw further clarifying the
role of the Performance Committee in-- the Performance Committee and the Executive Committee
considered this in November of last year. And then it was adopted by the Board at its December 3 meeting.
And that clearly spells out that the Performance Committee should be responsible for long-range strategic
planning.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. Having all that cleared up, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you very much. I just wanted to ask quickly, maybe you could speak to-- I'll
admit when I say this that I have not read a lot of strategic plans for government agencies before. But how
do you see-- it didn't seem like there was much of an analytical section in there. It was more of a
presentation of our strategic initiatives, of our goals.
And so I was wondering, is that typically part-- is that not typically, I should say, part of a strategic plan to
have something where we would go through and sort of talk about here's how these overarching initiatives,
here's how these goals sort of flow into the types of achievable results that we're looking for and how
everything sort of knits together? Or is this more of a high-level, 30,000-foot, we're going to present you
with the pieces of the Strategic Plan but not really dig into the-- not the details, but really sort of tying it
together in a more formal way, if that makes sense?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO?

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Thank you, Director Nicholson,
for the question. So as it relates to a Strategic Plan, specifically for a public transit agency, as you can
imagine, there's various elements that ensure that we can deliver our services in the manner in which the
taxpayers expect us to with our fiduciary responsibility.
Keeping that in mind, Mr. McKay did reference the strategic initiatives and that we have scorecards,
recognizing that we would not go into detail at this level talking about the mean distance between failure
and how that would yield a return on investment relative to service delivery, keeping in mind that there's
different components from a tactical level that would yield that, keeping also in mind that the end result of
what we do generally leads to transit utilization, which you may recall some of you referenced as ridership.
We talk about them as boardings.
There are certain elements. And so when Mr. McKay was talking about the strategic initiative of back to
basics, for instance, it's inherently important that we focus on our asset renewal, keeping in mind that this
was a five-year strategic plan. Now, we have a year left. That could morph, because we could be focused
on asset renewals and then, in the next year, pivot, where we're looking at, more specifically, vehicle
procurements to ensure that we are yielding the return on investment by the federal government, whereby
we're exceeding the 12-year useful life.
And so I'm giving you these specific examples intentionally to amplify my point that the nature of our
business would not entail us, or it-- well, not entail-- would not lend itself to go into specificity relative to
what we're actually doing, because it changes. But this does not negate the key performance indicators
within the critical departments within the organization that yield to a One RTD approach. [INAUDIBLE].
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I've been well trained to wait. I appreciate that. That's that was my primary question.
Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Larsen, your hand was up next.
MATT LARSEN: Sure, thank you, Chair Guzman. I just wanted to ask-- and I've been probably told this
before, but when will we start working on the next Strategic Plan, since we are in the last year of this one?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Chair Guzman. And thank you, Director Larsen, for the
question. For all intents and purposes, from a staff perspective, we're working on, in the third quarter, putting
together a scope, where we'll go forward relative to leveraging a solicitation to seek assistance in doing
that, keeping in mind that this is a joint effort with the Board. If the Board elected to do something otherwise,
then the staff would be agile to that. But for all intents and purposes, we would anticipate commencing with
this work in the very near term.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Does that satisfy your question?
MATT LARSEN: Yep, thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Anybody else? Well, I will just give an opinion on this. Thank you for making
it clear and concise, pulling a large amount of information back into a more digestible format. Explaining

what our strategic priorities look like from different points of view throughout the agency, not just from the
high level, is helpful in explaining what we're doing.
I do like that it is not prescriptive in the manner that the scorecards can be for a departmental valuation, but
does provide some, some room to maneuver in there. And so I'm looking forward to taking this vote, but
also looking forward to kind of finishing out this Strategic Plan and being able to implement a new one going
forward. So thank you for the work on it. I think it looks pretty sharp.
All right, if there is nothing else, one last chance. No? Let's take a vote. Are there any no votes on this
recommended action? Seeing none, that passes with seven ayes, zero noes, and zero absent. We will
send that up to the Board for unanimous consent. All right.
Next, there's a discussion item on the agenda for the General Manager and CEO Annual Performance
Assessment Overview. We need to get our ducks in a row, as we always do. And our Performance
Committee has done a lot of work to create and generate this process, both with and collaboratively through
advice from the CEO, Debra Johnson, who is currently in that position.
I would like to remind the Committee members that our process should be considered in a manner that is
relative to the position of General Manager and CEO. And we distinctly did not make this a personal issue.
It's not individual to Debra. This is supposed to be a sustainable and repeatable process that we can use
going forward. And we established it last year and have been working to perfect it.
So although it is not perfect, we are not going to let that be the enemy of the good. And we need to talk
about what timelines look like and what's coming up. So let's go ahead and forward to the next slide. For
your edification, there's a large outline on here of documents and work that has been done prior to today
that we use for looking at all of this information. We can go to the next slide. Go ahead and forward.
The General Manager compensation philosophy that the Board adopted in September of 2023 gives these
very specific ideas that we need to look at to demonstrate internal equity, fairness, transparency, while
being externally market competitive and aligning to the 50th percentile of pay for a person in the role of a
General Manager or CEO in this area. The idea that we need to be able to adapt nimbly to changing
external-- for example, labor markets-- and internal circumstances, i.e. fiscal restraints within the agency is
part of our whole compensation philosophy. Board members should be aware of that. Thank you.
The General Manager/CEO-- go ahead and forward it to the next one-- compensation range-- when Debra
Johnson entered into the General Manager/CEO five-year employment agreement in September of 2020,
we set forth some expectations regarding compensation and benefits and a program by which the Board
and in consultation with Ms. Johnson, should establish performance goals metrics, annually evaluate the
General Manager/CEO performance. That does not mean on a calendar year, necessarily, but that is what
we are doing right now, and utilizing a framework for determining future incentive awards and increases to
base salary subject to her meeting or exceeding these goals. Go ahead and forward.
In the Third Amendment, we did do work on compensation, benchmarking and analysis. We used-- the
Board used this information in consultation with General Manager/CEO to determine her compensation for
performance periods beginning January of 2023 going forward. Following a competitive solicitation,
Gallagher Benefit Services selected to conduct a comprehensive and systematic benchmarking analysis of
GM/CEO total compensation package, which includes both external market-based factors and internal
equity considerations to ensure competitiveness in pay practices. What does that mean? We're looking at

what happens externally to RTD, but also looking at how our pay structure is throughout the agency and
how that aligns.
The analysis informed the Board of decisions for compensation in the position for the General
Manager/CEO relative to market considerations. And we received study results in November of 2022 and
again in October of 2023. The Committee members of the-- the Performance Committee members
considered the recommendation of the General Manager/CEO base salary range based on the full market
data of comparable organizations. Next slide.
So in the highlighted area on the right of your screen, you will see that our compensation range currently is
a minimum of $292,600, to start. The midpoint is $402,325, and the maximum is $512,050. I think just
understanding that that's the band within we're working currently, it is important to know that.
General Performance Assessment framework-- February 15, we reached a consensus that process for
evaluating General Manager and the agency could be enhanced. Great. No surprises. We worked on what
we would do as Committee members through the '21-'26 Strategic Plan that was adopted in 2021 and
looked at the employment agreement contract entered into in September of 2020 and the fourth agreement
that was agreed to in October 26, 2022, also bringing into that the compensation study report completed
by Gallagher in 2022.
So we have agreed to explore possible strategies and opportunities to enhance this process for evaluating
our General Manager/CEO performance. Go ahead and go to the next one. This is the framework that we
currently use, our agency performance metrics, the data that Director Nicholson was referring to, should
always feed back into and support short-term goals. And working backwards, those short-term goals should
always support the agency values and the core base job functions of the General Manager/CEO.
The Board of Directors has accountability here to review all of this work. And the General Manager has the
accountability of making sure that all of this is aligned in the work that they are doing. So it's a cyclical,
supportable, sustainable, and repeatable performance framework. Go ahead to the next slide.
We adopted the Seventh Amendment in 2024 to the General Manager/CEO's agreement, in which we
wanted to retain an external consultant to conduct current compensation analysis. That was to be done no
later than October 31st of 2024. And we took appropriate action consistent with the compensation
philosophy from the Board that was adopted in 2023. Next slide, please.
For the Seventh Amendment, this is where we're at right now. The review of the 2022 Total Compensation
Study findings and recommendations needed to be completed. The applicability of the General
Manager/CEO compensation philosophy principles must be considered. And then we also need to
contemplate or consider any information provided by General Manager and CEO, in consultation with her,
prior to the Board taking any action.
The Board was not required by this current Seventh Amendment that we are working under right now to
adopt any adjusted base salary or other compensation increase, although we did agree to potentially review
it. And I am confident, as well as the Vice Chair of this Committee, that is something that we could have a
conversation with Chief People Officer Polege. I believe the last time she did this type of analysis for us
was 0.01% off. Is that correct? I see the head nod from Debra Johnson. Thank you very much, Madam
CEO.

Her certifications and qualifications exceed in this area. And so I don't see a need to do a further
comprehensive study, but we can certainly take a look at what adjusted salary bands might look like. I don't
believe that far off. Go ahead and forward to the next slide, please.
This is the result of the RKL-- I'm sorry. Yes. In analyzing the responses, our contractor, RKL Virtual
Management, found that the General Manager/CEO compensation was at market in five areas, lagging in
two, and above market in one area. That full report is available to Directors at their request. If you have not
seen it, it's worth the read. Next slide, please.
So in January of 2024, the Board approved the 2024 General Manager CEO performance assessment
framework. It was developed in conversations among current and immediate past Board Chairs, the
Performance Committee, the Executive Committee, and the Chief People Officer, along with the General
Manager and CEO. Done collaboratively together, we reached consensus in our conversations to retain an
external consultant to work with the General Manager/CEO and the Performance Committee.
That resulted in a 360 evaluation and also assisted the Board in the development and execution of a final
performance assessment framework and process that we can use repeatedly, with some updates every
year. In July 9 of '24, RTD entered into an agreement with RKL, developed the 360, and assisted the Board
with the General Manager/CEO final performance assessment. Next.
I'm bringing this up because this is how we worked last year, and it was part of our timeline. The key
objectives for the 360 assessment were to identify assessment raters, identify key assessment
components, everything listed here, develop a performance assessment tool, a list of questions, and then
distribute the results to the Board for analyzation and for the reporting. Go ahead to the next slide.
Both the 360 and the self-evaluation from the General Manager/CEO were tied to the process of the full
Board assessment. However, the Board did not receive the 360 assessment tool prior to our evaluation of
the General Manager/CEO. And the 360 assessment tool was not a weighted part of the General Manager's
evaluation. Her self-evaluation was far more important to us. It's OK. That's fine.
The proposed approach that we took made sure that we did the interview performance with the Committee
Directors-- And there were three different Committee Directors last year-- interviewed the General Manager
on goals, reviewed our job description for the General Manager/CEO position and organizational values
and goals, narrowing that down, and then getting to the develop assessment questions section on this to
achieve the proper questions for that 360 review. Go ahead and go forward.
The identifying raters-- we had five direct reports to this General Manager/CEO, three Board Directors and
four peers and stakeholders externally to the agency, to provide a full array of feedback that could be used
by the General Manager/CEO for their purposes, information, and edification to challenge their perception
on their work or to confirm that they are doing the right work. Go ahead to the next slide, please.
The general performance assessment tool was completed. Board of Directors received it. We encompassed
quantitative reasoning-- for our assessment tool, we encompassed both quantitative ratings and qualitative
feedback, highlighted strengths, as well as constructive critiques. RKL did compile our data. They brought
back some trends, strengths, and areas for improvement. I believe, Jack, this was presented to the
Committee in September of '24. Is that correct?

JACK KROLL: Chair Guzman, I'm not aware of when it was presented, just solely because it was likely
presented within the confines of an executive session. But I'm sure it was shared at some point in the fall
with the Board. GM/CEO Johnson may have a better recollection of the time frame there.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may, so yes, this was in the November time frame, and it was in an executive
session because this wasn't completed until October of 2024. And I submitted my self-assessment in early
November.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, thank you. Just looking at timelines, for those of you that have the executive
privilege, it may be worth going and taking a peek at that. Let's go ahead and forward to the next slide.
Generally speaking, and this is public information already, this was the result of the entire annual
performance assessment. This is what is external. We graded on core and base job performance, shortterm goals, and then the totals of the number of raters. All the fun math to get the results resulting in a
score, points received, and then max possible points so that we get to the right amounts.
We also needed to do the pay for performance table. The pay for performance table was agreed to at the
beginning of the year, when we approved this year's short-term goals. So there will need to be some
adjustment. In terms of the slide, this is not reflective of what the current year is, only because this is what
was done last year, and that has changed.
I'm going to pause here for just a moment. The performance assessment summary results section that you
see here has core and base job performance and short-term goals. There will be a third section added in
here, which is agency values. Those each have a weighted percentage. And so Vice Chair Gutschenritter
and I have agreed that we will look towards the performance assessment and work with necessary subject
matter experts on updating the way that we are presenting our performance assessment to all of you.
You will have an opportunity to opine, but we're going to get that work done first. That's a big chunk of what
we needed to try and figure out at the beginning of the year. And now we have to reflect the assessment
tool to achieve what we had set forth as goals and relative to the assessment that has been approved by
this body. Go ahead and forward, again.
For your edification, pull your calendars out. This is what you need to know is going on. We're going to hit
a pinch point, I believe, in this Committee around June, as we get a download of information from a working
group with Director Larsen and First Vice Chair O'Keefe about potential changes to how we develop goals
with our CEO going forward. And they're going to bring us some recommendations.
So June will be a key month to pay attention to. It's not listed here, but I just found out about that after our
conversation, so I'm highlighting that. What we can look forward here to is that we will have quarterly
dialogues with Debra. We will spend the Performance Committee's time speaking directly to her about
where we are at with respect to the goals for the current year, agency metrics, key performance indicators
that support that information, and generally entering into a conversation with our employee about how things
are going and the state of where we're at in the current work.
Through October and November, we would expect that our General Manager/CEO is developing a selfassessment to be presented to the Committee and then to the Board fully. In November, we will do the
Board assessment as Directors. And I'm going to pause there. Again, Director Gutschenritter, my Vice Chair

on this Committee, and I will work on the assessment, get feedback from all of you ahead of time so that it
doesn't come to you as a surprise of what we're looking at or how we're doing that evaluation.
In November, we will have the year-end performance dialogue. That typically happens under executive
session, as it is a personnel matter. And then in December, we will move forward a recommendation to the
Board for the adoption of the current assessment of work. I want everybody to be aligned around that
because those are going to be critical meetings.
And if you've been on this Committee before, you know sometimes it gets a little bit hectic. But if we're
looking forward and planning it out, we know when we need to be ready for them. Go ahead to the next
slide, please.
Framework components that we need to consider-- we need to look at the point distribution for core-based
job performance, demonstration of agency values, and the attainment of short term goals, and then how
those are associated to the adjusted base salary percentage increase. If we fail to do this work, if we do
not meet our deadlines, then Ms. Johnson shall be evaluated and compensated based on the criteria of the
prior performance period.
We already approved these goals for 2025. So now we just have to finish doing the evaluation work. But
we do need to make adjustments for the three areas that will have an impact on the adjusted base salary
percentage increase potential by adjusting and aligning our tool to be able to do that. Go ahead to the next
slide.
Here's an idea of what you can look forward to. These are current and in line with what we have approved
since January of this year-- 10 points for the alignment with agency values, 40 points for the core and base
job performance, and 50 points weighting for the short-term goals. Clearly, we wanted to emphasize the
work towards the short-term goals, and so that's 50% of the total weighting here. And we are giving values
to the other core pieces of the job that we would expect of any of us. So we're going to look at all of that
comprehensively.
Does not meet expectations would be a point range of 0 to 54 points at the end of this. Given the current
guidelines and the discussion and approval of the framework on doing adjusted base salary, that would
equate to a 1% to 2.99% adjusted base salary increase. It meets expectation would exceed 55 points to 80
points, and that would be a 3% to 5.99% adjusted base salary increase. And exceed expectations would
be 81 points to the full 100 and 6% to 7%. That is in the contract agreement that we are currently under.
Next slide, please.
We have completed our March one-on-one quarterly performance dialogue with Debra. The next one is
scheduled for June. There was another item on the calendar for that day, along with that conversation. We
are going to separate that out. Expect to get polled for a second meeting in June to be able to quickly deal
with that. The other matter is important, but not as important as working and taking the time for our
employee.
This is part of the agreement that is outlined in the current amendment to Debra's contract for the General
Manager/CEO position to ensure that we have quarterly communication regarding where we're at and how
she is doing as our employee, any problems that she is having that this body can address, and any
obstacles that we face in terms of working with her to get the work done. Next slide, please.

General Manager will provide us with a self-assessment. It is detailing her performance over the review
period. We would expect to see from that both challenges, obstacles, and successes that are presented to
us. And it is a critical component of the overall annual performance assessment, as if there is confusion by
a Director or something that might be misunderstood, as relevant to achieving goals or where challenges
lied, that we can take that into consideration when we, as individual Directors, give our score and
assessment. Go ahead to the next slide, please.
The Board will then distribute the performance assessment tool to all Directors. We're going to have some
hard deadlines on this. If you do not make the deadline, I'm sorry. You're not going to be included in the
assessment. So we got to keep an eye on that and help each other be accountable to making sure that this
is done. Time is of the essence by the time we get to November.
Individual Director ratings are tabulated to produce a final assessment score. That would be from all of the
Directors who have turned their work in on time. And it will utilize both quantitative ratings and qualitative
feedback. You'll give a score number that we can tabulate. And you will also give some description that
would be used for Debra directly for her work as the General Manager/CEO.
These ratings and feedback are not anonymous. They are attached to your names. Be aware of that.
Professional courtesy, decorum, and responsible communication is expected by every member of this body.
And as we are working in a personnel matter, it is expected that is the approach that we take. Please
forward to the next slide.
Directors and the General Manager will have an executive session to have a two-way constructive annual
performance dialogue. And we will be afforded a short window to review and revise the initial assessment
scores, if warranted. Jack, I saw your hand pop up. What's up?
JACK KROLL: I just wanted to clarify that, while your names would be attached to the feedback received,
the feedback would stay confidential. The only thing that gets published in this process is the overall
assessment rating and the corresponding merit increase, if any, that the Board and the GM and CEO agree
upon.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Externally to the public.
JACK KROLL: Correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: But internally, when we are having our one-on-one dialogues for the purpose of
clarification, we have agreed with the General Manager/CEO's recommendation that we do not remove our
names from feedback to her directly. That way, if there is a need for follow-up or further discussion around
some piece of information that is provided, she is able to follow up with each of us with respect to our
comments and feedback. Madam CEO?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. And further to that point,
having been in a space where I manage staff, it would be highly unlikely that it would be anonymous
recognizing that this collective body, as individuals and then in sum, are providing me with feedback as it
relates to my performance. And that would not really be meaningful if I had no idea where it came from, as
I cannot course correct. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great I think it's always good to have that conversation sooner rather than later. That
way, everybody is of the same understanding. All right. A couple of other things in there, but nothing too
major. We've covered most of this.

And then, finally, I just want to bring up that last slide, which is next steps. Updated 2025 assessment
performance tool-- as I said, we need to look at values, core job duties, and short-term goals. We also need
to refresh the rater scoring guide and just have that published and ready to go.
So as I said, Vice Chair Gutschenritter-- I don't have the full-screen in front of me, sorry. But he and I are
going to be working on this together. We will likely engage just to make sure that we are both compliant, in
terms of the contract, with our General Counsel, Melanie Snyder, and with our Chief People Officer,
Charlene Polege, to ensure that we have the language correct, that we have the format correct, that we are
asking proper questions that delineate the process.
And we will look to you as members of this Committee for feedback once that work is done. We have not
begun that process yet, so I don't have answers in regards to what that may look like. But we are going to
proceed forward. Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: Thanks, Chair Guzman. I just wanted to ask you and anybody who might know, why did
we decide to align to the 50th percentile for the compensation versus possibly paying above market?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I would suggest to you review the compensation philosophy that the Board passed.
It delineates all of the responsibility of the Board. It gives us room to move up or down, depending on the
situation that we have at hand, or to stay steady at the helm.
One of the issues that we face is a top level. We only have so much money, and we have to be able to
make that work for the whole agency, not just one single employee, because the funds that we receive from
sales and use tax are what run this agency. And then you don't want to go too low, because then you cannot
attract new talent, you cannot retain good talent, and you cannot pay for the achievement performance if
somebody is exceedingly good at their job if you have everything up at the higher end.
But the performance-- sorry, the compensation philosophy that this Board approved guides the direction of
that. And I saw Charlene Polege pop up. Did you want to add anything there?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, thank you, Chair Guzman. The decision around the 50th percentile was
purely made by the Board and the Performance Committee. What I would flag-- Performance Committee
recommended to the Board-- is that it aligns with how we have our compensation set up for our nonrepresented staff. So I can't speak to why the Board decided on the 50th percentile, but I did want to give
that data point that all non-represented compensation is targeted at the 50th percentile.
MATT LARSEN: So could we-- I mean, if we wanted to, is there any reason why we couldn't say these
positions should be targeted at a higher percentage, and these other ones can be at the 50th percentile or
something like that?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I think we absolutely could. The only caution, major caution, that I would give there is
that we do have a finite amount of capital to spend on employment payments. And total compensation is
not just a salary figure. There's also the perquisite part of it, the health care, the other benefits that are given
that we need to be aware of, including paid time off and vacation, other things like that. CFO Polege,
please?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, I just wanted to also add that there were recommendations in the 2010
performance audit that was done by the State Auditor that also called for alignment between the General
Manager and CEO's compensation and contract with other non-represented employees. Doesn't mean that
it has to be exact, but they were-- best practice was to have it. So the intent was, as I understand it in the

document, to ensure that you did not have as significant a spread, from a GM and CEO perspective, relative
to all other non-represented.
That was a recommendation in that audit. But again, I'm just giving that detail. The decision would be-- key
item in there is to be competitive in the compensation philosophy. So of course, it does-- that is a
compensation philosophy only for the GM and CEO role, which therefore does mean that the Board does
have purview to make changes if it felt necessary.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And I'm going to phone a friend, also. Director Catlin, did you have anything you
wanted to weigh in on here? A lot of this work was done-- and I'm trying to reach back in memory because
I was prepared for something else. But maybe you have something to add?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. No, Chair Guzman. CPO Polege pretty much highlighted what I recall.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, great. Any other questions? Are we comfortable proceeding with Vice Chair
Gutschenritter and I working on the assessment tool and updating it for the new goals? And does anybody
have any preliminary feedback about timelines, or do we feel comfortable we can complete this work
correctly? And I'm just kind of looking for a head nod or anything. All right, looks like I'm getting the thumbs
up and some head nods.
All right, Madam CEO, anything to add from your perspective? I want this to be a collaborative process. But
some of this work, as we have discussed, just belongs to us getting our assessment tool in order and
updated for the current year. So if you have anything to add, I would invite you to the conversation.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Guzman. At this juncture, I don't have anything to add,
just wanted to iterate that, as you indicated, it is a collective effort once we go down the path of working in
partnership. But with the assessment tool, quite naturally, you all will opine and advise accordingly. Thank
you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, thank you. Then that concludes our discussion item today. Are there any
other matters to discuss from Committee members? Going once, going twice. All right, we'll close other
matters. Next meeting date will be May 12, 2025. We are scheduled to be holding discussions on the current
GM/CEO assessment form that is developed by then. Hopefully, we will have everything done.
Thank you for your patience. Thank you for being flexible and moving the meeting this month. It was so
close to the end of the last Board meeting, there was not time to complete everything for our Committee
work. So I appreciate that, just a deep thank you to all of you for working with us. And seeing no other
discussion, the meeting is now adjourned at 9:26 AM. Thank you. Have a good day.

