Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 2, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 5:36 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:34 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Committee Chair

Present
Absent
Present

5:34 PM

Tina Francone

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:34 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:34 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:34 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:34 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:35 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:34 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:34 PM

5:34 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:34 PM

Director Deadwyler was absent. Director Anderson participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Heather Copp, Nate Currey,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, John
Gonzales, Doug Gragg, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Shantel Lewis, Marla
Lien, Rik Lor, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Roger Sherman, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• Resolution No. ___ Series of 2016, RTD Position on House Bill 16-1008
The RTD Board of Directors votes to approve Resolution No. ___ Series of
2016 which is in support of House Bill 16-1008 that will permit the Bus On
Shoulder operations along US 36 for the voter-approved Bus Rapid Transit
Service, which is part of the Board-approved Flatiron Flyer service package.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the February 16, 2016 Board
Meeting.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Discussion:

There was no discussion on this item.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Resolution No. ___ Series of 2016, RTD Position on Senate Bill 16-011
The RTD Board of Directors votes to approve Resolution No. ___ Series of
2016 to take a position in opposition to Senate Bill 16-011 that will
eliminate annual transfers of $15 million for transit projects in Colorado.

Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 16, 2016
Board Meeting.
Chair Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Francone said it was her understanding that Senate
Bill 16-011(SB 16-011) had already passed its second reading
in the Senate. She asked for an explanation as to the
ramifications of approval of SB 16-011 for RTD and why it
was coming before the Board so late. Sherry Ellebracht,
Government Relations Officer, explained that SB 16-011 was
moving very quickly through the process. She pointed out
that this is the first Government Relations Committee Meeting
since SB 16-011 was introduced. She stated that currently
RTD receives a minimum of $3 million annually under the
Funding Advancements for Surface Transportation and
Economic Recovery Act of 2009 (FASTER). RTD also has the
opportunity to compete for funding from a statewide pool of
$2 million. She stated that passage of SB 16-011 would have
a significant impact on RTD’s funding.
Director Francone inquired if her understanding was correct
that the funds received under FASTER are to be used
specifically for improvements to roads and bridges. Sherry
Ellebracht said that FASTER allocates $15 million for transit
funding. Marla Lien, General Counsel, explained that there is a
broad definition of projects that can be eligible for FASTER
funds. She indicated that they had to be roadway related, so
RTD could not use the funds to buy light rail vehicles, but
funds had been used for things like the Mall Shuttle
transitway, DUS, Park-n-Ride improvements, etc.
Director Menten thought that if SB 16-011 passed, the funds
would go back to CDOT for road improvements and safety.
Sherry Ellebracht said she thought that was correct. Director
Menten wondered if that meant these funds would be used to
improve a bridge where our buses traveled over. Sherry
Ellebracht stated that it would depend on what area of the
state CDOT decided to use the funding, and on what projects,
but it was possible.
Director Anderson pointed out that many of our riders use the
vehicles to get to Park-n-Rides to use our service. She
believes passage of SB 16-011 would hinder projects that held

the elderly and disabled access our services. She indicated
that she was in support of RTD’s position.
Committee Chair Folska pointed out that many on the Board
are concerned with a low income fare. She thinks no longer
receiving $3 million of FASTER funds will make RTD even
more constrained in supporting those who are transit
dependent.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Folska declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, shared that he attended the Metro Mayors
Caucus (MMC) Retreat on January 9th. He commented that transportation
was a major topic in a number of ways. He said there was a presentation
regarding a new non-profit called Mobility Choice with the goal of creating a
vision for the future of mobility in the Metro area. Roger Sherman said this
non-profit will be analyzing the feasibility of a 2018 ballot measure to fund
the vision that comes out of this group. He said the second presentation
related to transit was by Build a Better Colorado, which is the statewide
conversation that is occurring around various constitutional challenges and
funding/fiscal policies. He noted that one of the items being discussed is a
potential debrucing of the State which would provide new funding. One of
the other items under discussion is targeting some of those funds for
transportation. There was also a general discussion of transportation led by
Mayor Jim Gunning.
Roger Sherman pointed out that transportation is a major focus for our local
elected mayors, but what is different is that there are very different opinions
than we saw leading up to the 2004 election. He stated that the MMC is
meeting on February 3, 2016 as well to hear a presentation related to polling
that was completed by the Colorado Contractors Association. He said this
polling has shown some favorability for a statewide sales tax for
transportation. He shared that there is interest in pursuing that for the 2016
ballot. He explained that there is the risk that competition between the
various transportation funding ideas could end up killing all of them. He

stated that there is agreement that there is a transportation funding
challenge but very differing opinions about how to move forward.
Roger Sherman shared that he will be attending the Colorado City and
County Managers Association Conference at the end of February. He
believes it is very important for CRL to maintain those relationships.
Roger Sherman informed the Board that he will be reaching out to them soon
to schedule one-on-one meetings to begin preparing for the telephone town
halls. He said the plan is to start early so that everyone feels prepared.
Director Francone said she was glad to hear that transportation is on
everyone’s mind. She wondered if there was any indication of the hot
button issues for the MMC. She wondered if it was bike trails, the bullet
train from Cheyenne to Pueblo, etc. Roger Sherman commented that the
group never got into that level of detail; however, there were a lot of
differing opinions that started to surface depending on where they were in
the region and based on party affiliation. He believes if there is a solution
that encompasses everyone’s needs it will be harder to reach than the
FasTracks tax ballot was in 2003/2004.
Director Lubow asked if there was any specific discussion related to transit
itself related to the Mobility Choice non-profit. Roger Sherman stated that
there was discussion about partnering with RTD, CDOT and DRCOG to talk
about funding priorities. There was also a discussion related to looking the
FasTracks projects that had not yet been finished and looking at all the
alternatives. He noted another primary focus is first and last mile
connection and if there is a way for the public and private sector to partner
in those connections.

• State Update - Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna, thanked the Directors who
were able to attend the Legislative Event at Denver Union Station. She
thought it was very well attended, and not just by legislators from the Front
Range. It was a great opportunity for educating the legislators and
networking.
Jenifer Brandeberry noted that the legislature is now up and running. She
shared that on the third and final reading House Bill 16-1008, roadway
shoulder access for buses, it passed out of the House to the Senate. She
pointed out that this is a bipartisan bill that CDOT is leading along with
support from RTD and DRCOG. She expects the bill will continue to move
forward quickly.

Jenifer Brandeberry reiterated that this session is going to be marked by bills
being introduced in one chamber and killed off by the other. She said that
bigger issues like transportation funding will come after the March forecast.
Jenifer Brandeberry anticipates Senate Bill 16-037 dying this week in the
Senate. This is a bill by Senator Kefalas and Representative Pabon related to
the Colorado Open Records Act (CORA). She explained that there is a lot of
concern surrounding the way it has been drafted and the burden that would
be placed on the public entity in terms of how they needed to compile
information. She noted that this is a very complicated issue but thinks the
time is right for there to be a stakeholder process to update CORA so it
reflects current technology.
Director Bagley commented that the Resolution related to the Board’s
position of opposition of SB 16-011 passed 12 to 2. He wondered if it was
appropriate for members of the Board and staff to testify before the House
on RTD’s position. He thinks this bill is of critical importance to RTD. Marla
Lien, General Counsel, stated at this time the Board had not taken a position
related to SB 16-011 as it had only passed the Government Relations
Committee. She said that assuming the Board passed the resolution any
Board member or staff member could testify relative to RTD’s position;
conversely, any Board member can testify as to their own personal position
as long as they make it clear they are not testifying on behalf of the Board
or RTD.
Jenifer Brandeberry indicated she would be happy to work with members of
the Board to craft appropriate testimony. She reiterated that the likelihood
of this bill passing is slim. She pointed out that Director Menten testified in
support of SB 16-011. Jenifer Brandeberry said she wanted to thank
Director Menten for the way she conducted herself. Director Menten made
it clear she was there as a personal citizen providing her personal opinion.
Director Francone asked of Senate Bill 16-037 related to CORA was the bill
requiring that records are provided in an electronic formal. Jenifer
Brandeberry said that was correct. She reiterated that this bill will die in the
Senate as it was not written right; however, she thinks there will be a
second bill introduced later after a stakeholder group is established.
Committee Chair Folska noted that SB 16-037 could have a real impact on
RTD as we process many, many CORA requests. Jenifer Brandeberry
explained that there is a demand from some groups that would like to
require certain types of burdens on public entities to format the records in a
way that would benefit those groups. The public entities are concerned
about privacy issues, work that goes into preparing the records, etc. She
believes that most public entities recognize the need to update CORA to

reflect current technology but the conversation is not yet ready for prime
time.
Director Menten shared that SB 16-037 is a bill she strongly supports. She
pointed out that there have been several stakeholder meetings since early
December that were started by open records advocates. She thinks the
public entities are overreacting to this bill. She hopes this bill does not die
and she will be working on her end to move it forward. She stressed that
there has been a lot of stakeholder input. She believes there has been a
great deal of misinformation about what the bill is actually doing. Jenifer
Brandeberry agrees the conversation will continue. She thinks it is a matter
of striking a balance between what makes sense from a cost standpoint and
a fairness standpoint. She stated that Brandeberry~McKenna would
continue to monitor the issue and report back to the Board.
Director Bagley wanted to note that when Director Menten said ‘we’ related
to SB 16-037 she was not speaking on behalf of the RTD Board. He
expressed concern that within the RTD Committee and Board meetings
when someone used the term ‘we’ there was a tendency for that to mean
the RTD Board. Director Menten did not believe she implied she was
speaking in reference to the RTD Board but instead she was speaking of a
stakeholder group.
Director Anderson believes everyone’s wishes need to be respected and an
agreement needs to be reached related to updating CORA; however, it
should not just be special interest groups that are dictating the changes.
Director Solano wondered what House Bill 16-1097 was trying to
accomplish by changing the oversight for permits for Medicaid transportation
providers. Jenifer Brandeberry explained that there is a program for recipient
of Medicaid to receive transportation services. She stated that on the Front
Range the program works pretty well; however, in rural communities there
have been issues surrounding how these people get services. The permitting
process for entities that want to provide those transportation services has
been pretty laborious. The goal of this bill is to streamline the process for
service providers in rural areas. She explained that sometimes there can be
confusion between the Medicaid transportation services and Access-a-Ride
so they monitor the discussion.
Director Menten requested that it be made clear that the Resolution of RTD’s
position on SB 16-011 passed by a vote of 12 to 2 in any testimony from
RTD Directors or staff.
Committee Chair Folska thanked Brandeberry~McKenna for their work on
the Legislative event. She thought they did a great job. She also thanked
the Directors that were able to attend. She noted that Director Bagley put

together some wonderful information about Denver Union Station. She
encouraged the Directors that were not in attendance to make sure they
received a copy.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Sherry Ellebracht commented that there was not much to report from
Washington as there has not been much activity. She said the next big
thing coming up is the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget proposal that will
come out in February. She anticipates the Eagle P3 will be in the proposal
but Squire Patton Boggs will be watching it very closely and report back.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone reported that on January 20 she attended the Hispanic
Contractors of Colorado’s annual dinner. She shared that they were very excited to
have someone from RTD in attendance. She thought it was a wonderful outreach
and noted that the Hispanic community, especially the small business, are very
anxious to do business with RTD.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 8, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 6:16 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

