1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Larry Hoy, District J
Bill James, District A

William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Tom Tobiassen, District F
Jeff Walker, District D
Kathi Williams, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
May 22, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Paul Lopez, Street Supervisor, 38 years
Greg Yates, General Superintendent of Transportation, 37 years
Special Recognition
Owner of the Year Award- Design Build Institute of America (DBIA) in the transit
category

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Directors Anderson, Hoy & Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF APRIL 17, 2012

VIII.

CHAIR’S REPORT

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A.

August 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August2012 Service Changes (Attachment A)
on to public review and comment.

B.

Award of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a
contract with the Seniors’ Resource Center for the provision of the “Evergreen
Call-n-Ride” contracted demand response transit services. This contract is for one
year for an amount not to exceed $535,356 with four (4) one-year options in the
amounts of $543,567 (option year 1), $559,603 (option year 2), $576,133
(option year 3) and $593,158 (option year 4), for a total five year amount not to
exceed $2,807,817. These costs are based on an hourly rate and include
estimated fuel costs, which will be treated as a “pass-through” (RTD will
reimburse the Contractor’s direct fuel costs). This proposal represents the most
responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 12-DO-001, to provide “Evergreen Call-n-Ride” Public Transportation
Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to begin June 1, 2012.

C.

Route 15/15Ltd Colfax Avenue Transit Priority Project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract
with Apex Design for the study and preliminary and final design and engineering for
Phases 1 & 2 of the Colfax Avenue/RTD Route 15/15Ltd Transit Priority Corridor pilot
program in an amount not to exceed $500,000.

D.

Award Contract to Supply48-45’ Intercity Buses to Replace 14-Year Old 1998 –
MCI buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award the contract to
Motor Coach Industries (MCI) for the purchase of 48 - 45’ intercity buses and
associated spare components to replace RTD’s existing 14-year old 1998 Model
Year MCI buses.

E.

Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH),
Contract 11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 11 DO-025 with
SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of
$1,500,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $2,000,000. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded
by the Civic Center Rehabilitation project.

F.

Adoption of 2013 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the attached 2013 Performance Measures for Goals 17.

G.

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2012 declaring the intent of the District to use
proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to
reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the
acquisition of buses and other transit equipment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Reimbursement Resolution”), declaring the intent of the District to use proceeds
from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to
reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the
acquisition of buses and other transit equipment.

H.

State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state
legislative liaison services) with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to
exercise a one-year option (July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013) to extend Contract
No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of $107,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.

I.

Eagle P3 Property Acquisition
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain
additional properties as necessary for construction of the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail
Project and the associated Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and authorizing
staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.

J.

Grant of Easement for Roof Overhang Encroachment and Trellis Encroachment over
RTD owned property at 18th and Wynkoop Street, near Denver Union Station, 1701
Wynkoop Street, City and County of Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a non-exclusive easement allowing for the roof overhang
encroachment of the adjacent office and retail building to be constructed by North
Wing Building Venture, LLC containing approximately 1,096 square feet allowing the
roof overhang and trellis to encroach onto property owned by RTD to be developed
as a sidewalk near the intersection of 18th Street and Wynkoop Street, near Denver
Union Station at 1701 Wynkoop Street, City and County of Denver, Colorado.

K.

Authorization for the Conveyance of Property, Acquisition of Property, and
Participation in a Condominium Association for the Boulder Transit Village and Depot
Square
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of

Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute
all documents necessary to (i) convey property interests in the RTD property to
Pederson Development Company LLC (“Pederson”), or its approved assignee, in order
to effectuate the development of the Boulder Junction TOD as provided in the
authorizing resolution attached as Exhibit A; (ii) terminate all remaining rights and
obligations between RTD and the City of Boulder pursuant to the Boulder Transit
Village Land Acquisition Funding Agreement, executed 4/29/2002 as amended, and
the Boulder Transit Village Master and Site Planning and Preliminary Construction
Agreement executed 12/31/2007; (iii) authorize an increase in the contract amount of
the design build contract previously awarded to Adolfson & Peterson Construction
(“A&P”) and Pedersen by Board action on September 20, 2011 (the “D/B Contract”)
of up to $830,873.00 (the amount of the proceeds from the transfer of property
rights to Pederson); and (iv) amend the scope of the Design-Build Contract to provide
that A&P / Pederson will provide RTD with a single level of parking in the shared
parking structure to allow RTD to manage and operate its commuter parking
independently if required.
It is further recommended by the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board authorizes a transfer of $830,873 from
the unrestricted fund balance to the Boulder Junction Project to fund the increase in
the contract amount. These funds will be replenished in the 2012 amended budget
from the proceeds of the property interest transfers.

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

L.

2011 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial
reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2011 as prepared by Staff and
audited by the District's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.

M.

Withdrawal of 2012 FasTracks Financial Plan and DRCOG SB 208 Submittal
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors withdraw the 2012 financial plan and accompanying RTD
2011 Annual Report to DRCOG (SB 208 Report) submitted to DRCOG in
March 2012 for review as required by a DRCOG Board Resolution pursuant to
Senate Bill 90-208. The RTD Board of Directors further directs RTD staff to
develop options for the timing, approach and assumptions to be included in a
new submittal to DRCOG in the summer of 2012, and to report back to the
RTD Board of Directors on this topic on a monthly basis. With this action, the
RTD Board of Directors also confirms that RTD will not pursue a sales and
use tax election in 2012.

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) Personnel Matters-General Manager Contract

XIII.

OLD BUSINESS

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS

XV.

ADJOURN

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

