1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kathi Williams, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING - Revised
May 22, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Pro tem Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board Members were present at roll call. Chair Kemp arrived after roll call.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Mike Gil presented Paul Lopez, street supervisor with 38 years of experience. He shared
that Paul is known as a person who likes to hug and this is his trademark. Paul has been
married to his lovely wife Peggy for 41 years and has 2 kids and 3 grandchildren. Paul is
an avid golfer and likes to travel.
Paul accepted his award and indicated that he has shared 38 wonderful years at RTD. He
was trying for 40 years but that darn golf got in the way. He appreciates the support
that he has received at RTD and thanked the Board for the award.
Mike Gil introduced Greg Yates, general superintendent of transportation. Greg has
worked for RTD for 37 years, and started his career in Boulder. Greg has 2 daughters
and 2 granddaughters and loves to travel. He has a home in California and travels
frequently to and fro.
Director O’Boyle, Chair of the Salaried Employee Pension Trust Board, acknowledged Greg
Yates with a plaque in appreciation for the work he performed as one of the first midmanagers appointed to the Salaried Employee Pension Trust Board. He shared that Greg
asked very good questions and shared some good ideas relative to the pension fund.
Greg Yates accepted his awards and stated there was a method to his madness in being
on the pension fund board for the last 4 years. He stated that in his 37 years history at
RTD, there was never a dull moment and it has been amazing to see how much has
gotten accomplished. He appreciates the support of the Board and he is proud to have

worked for RTD.

SPECIAL RECOGNITION AWARD-OWNER OF THE YEAR AWARD
Rick Clarke introduced this award. This award was presented to RTD from the Design
Build Institute in the transit category as the transportation owner of the year. This
underscores the national prominence and recognition that RTD has received in the
industry by our peers. He expressed gratitude to the RTD team who made this happen
and stated we have the best team in the country.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
David Sale from Vancouver Washington spoke about his personal experience of having a
daughter and her friends dying tragically by being killed by a bus in 2010. Since then he has
advocated for transit safety and has joined arms with a company, TAPTCO, to promote their
program on safety and pedestrian awareness. This program has been accepted in three states
and he would like the opportunity to talk to someone at RTD about his program.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen
Director O’Boyle pointed out what he thought to be a mistake in the Government
Relations minutes on page 12 which indicated the vote passed by 13 in favor when three
members were absent. Director Anderson pointed out she participated by phone and did
vote on this issue.
Director Daly indicated an error on page 2 of the study session minutes. This has been
corrected.

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Committee Chair Bagley stated that at the end of this meeting there will be an executive
session to discuss the contract term sheet for the General Manager.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF APRIL 17, 2012
MOTION:

Director Malpiede moved for the adoption
of the April 27, 2012 Regular Board
Meeting Minutes as written and

circulated.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James,
Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker and Williams)
and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

VIII.

CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Kemp provided these updates:

Several of the Directors participated in the APTA International bus roadeo and bus
and paratransit conference in California. RTD was well represented by its drivers and
staff. The maintenance crew in the heating and air conditioning category came in first
place. Director Daly added a special thanks to Nadine Lee for setting up the BRT tour
of the Silver line. All of the directors attended this tour. It was unusual to see stations
in the media connected to parking lots by bridges. Director Deadwyler stated this was
an initial shock to see busses stopping in the middle of intersections. She also found
the EXPO very interesting.

Women in Transit-Director Malpiede attended the Women in Transit Conference
and expressed this was well represented. She believes Colorado has the best chapter
in the country. She thanked our RTD representatives, especially Carla Perez who sits
on the Board.

Director Tobiassen represented the Board at the groundbreaking of the Yale Bridge
on May 10th in preparation for the I-225 expansion to Iliff. Director Tobiassen
operated the lift to move the first dirt as though he was an expert. Director Tobiassen
indicated how exciting this is to see this level of work begin and how efficient the
team was in moving the bridge with minimal disruption to the drivers in that area.

Director Tobiassen participated in the Accelerate Colorado trip to Washington May
14-16. Director Tobiassen indicated this was a very productive trip where they met
with the Colorado Congressional team and also Secretary of Transportation Ray
LaHood. He shared some of the comments made by the Secretary of Transportation
that we need to get politics out of transportation so we get the funds to build a robust
transportation system across this country.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
General Manager Washington gave a brief update on the following items.

The East Metro Carnival was held on Saturday, May 19th. Directors Tobiassen and
Daly participated in some of the festivities involving a dunk tank. This event was
scheduled for the employees and their families. Fun was had by all.

West Corridor Opening date—RTD will announce to the press that our opening
date for the new West Corridor will be April 26, 2013. This is 8 months ahead of
schedule. This was a collaborative, participative effort involving our contractors (i.e.
Balfour Beatty, DTCG) and others, our first rate RTD team led by project manager Jim
Starling, Rick Clarke and the FasTracks team. This team merits applause for this great
achievement and setting the bar high in coming in this far ahead of schedule, within





budget and meeting our SBE/DBE goals. This project also put over 600 people to
work.
General Manager Washington announced that in 2010, they established an ATU
arbitration ruling with a provision that if a certain threshold is exceeded on the sales
and use tax collection, RTD would payout $750 to the fulltime represented employees
and $200 to the part-time represented employees. We met that threshold as of
March 31, 2012. He is especially pleased to be able to make this payout to our
unionized workers who are the heart and soul of how we get things done here at RTD.
General Manager Washington announced another key member of the RTD staff
who is leaving for a better opportunity. Teresa Sedmak, Investment Manager, has
accepted the position as the Treasurer for the City of Tacoma. Teresa played an
instrumental role in getting the Penta-P passed and her knowledge of finances is
nothing less than brilliant. Terry Howerter, CFO, added that Teresa is a storehouse of
knowledge and while this is a loss, this is truly an opportunity for Teresa.
Chair Kemp commented on the fact that Teresa has a grip on our financial
standings and he often uses her to gauge how we are doing.
Teresa thanked RTD for her 13 years. She stated that every day she has been
challenged and it has been an absolute pleasure to serve here.

Director Tayer provided a thank you to General Manager Washington and Scott Reed,
AGM of Communications, for their participation in the US 36 Coalition meeting. He
stated hhis was a very challenging conversation but we share in the spirit of moving
forward together.
X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A-K on the unanimous consent.
MOTION:

Director Cohen made the motion that the
Board of Directors adopts the unanimous
consent agenda, items A through K.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.

A.

August 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August2012 Service Changes (Attachment A)
on to public review and comment.

B.

Award of “Evergreen call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a
contract with the Seniors’ Resource Center for the provision of the “Evergreen
Call-n-Ride” contracted demand response transit services. This contract is for one
year for an amount not to exceed $535,356 with four (4) one-year options in the
amounts of $543,567 (option year 1), $559,603 (option year 2), $576,133
(option year 3) and $593,158 (option year 4), for a total five year amount not to
exceed $2,807,817. These costs are based on an hourly rate and include
estimated fuel costs, which will be treated as a “pass-through” (RTD will
reimburse the Contractor’s direct fuel costs). This proposal represents the most
responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 12-DO-001, to provide “Evergreen Call-n-Ride” Public Transportation
Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to begin June 1, 2012.

C.

Route 15/15Ltd Colfax Avenue Transit Priority Project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract
with Apex Design for the study and preliminary and final design and engineering for
Phases 1 & 2 of the Colfax Avenue/RTD Route 15/15Ltd Transit Priority Corridor pilot
program in an amount not to exceed $500,000.

D.

Award Contract to Supply48-45’ Intercity Buses to Replace 14-Year Old 1998 –
MCI buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award the contract to
Motor Coach Industries (MCI) for the purchase of 48 - 45’ intercity buses and
associated spare components to replace RTD’s existing 14-year old 1998 Model
Year MCI buses.

E.

Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH),
Contract 11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 11 DO-025 with
SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of
$1,500,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $2,000,000. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded
by the Civic Center Rehabilitation project.

F.

Adoption of 2013 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the attached 2013 Performance Measures for Goals 17.

G.

Resolution No. ___, Series of 2012 declaring the intent of the District to use
proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to
reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the
acquisition of buses and other transit equipment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the

“Reimbursement Resolution”), declaring the intent of the District to use proceeds
from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase agreement to
reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in connection with the
acquisition of buses and other transit equipment.

H.

State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state
legislative liaison services) with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to
exercise a one-year option (July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013) to extend Contract
No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of $107,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.

I.

Eagle P3 Property Acquisition
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain
additional properties as necessary for construction of the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail
Project and the associated Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and authorizing
staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.

J.

Grant of Easement for Roof Overhang Encroachment and Trellis Encroachment over
RTD owned property at 18th and Wynkoop Street, near Denver Union Station, 1701
Wynkoop Street, City and County of Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a non-exclusive easement allowing for the roof overhang
encroachment of the adjacent office and retail building to be constructed by North
Wing Building Venture, LLC containing approximately 1,096 square feet allowing the
roof overhang and trellis to encroach onto property owned by RTD to be developed
as a sidewalk near the intersection of 18th Street and Wynkoop Street, near Denver
Union Station at 1701 Wynkoop Street, City and County of Denver, Colorado.

K.

Authorization for the Conveyance of Property, Acquisition of Property, and
Participation in a Condominium Association for the Boulder Transit Village and Depot
Square
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute
all documents necessary to (i) convey property interests in the RTD property to
Pederson Development Company LLC (“Pederson”), or its approved assignee, in order
to effectuate the development of the Boulder Junction TOD as provided in the
authorizing resolution attached as Exhibit A; (ii) terminate all remaining rights and
obligations between RTD and the City of Boulder pursuant to the Boulder Transit
Village Land Acquisition Funding Agreement, executed 4/29/2002 as amended, and
the Boulder Transit Village Master and Site Planning and Preliminary Construction
Agreement executed 12/31/2007; (iii) authorize an increase in the contract amount of
the design build contract previously awarded to Adolfson & Peterson Construction
(“A&P”) and Pedersen by Board action on September 20, 2011 (the “D/B Contract”)
of up to $830,873.00 (the amount of the proceeds from the transfer of property
rights to Pederson); and (iv) amend the scope of the Design-Build Contract to provide

that A&P / Pederson will provide RTD with a single level of parking in the shared
parking structure to allow RTD to manage and operate its commuter parking
independently if required.
It is further recommended by the Planning and
Development Committee that the RTD Board authorizes a transfer of $830,873 from
the unrestricted fund balance to the Boulder Junction Project to fund the increase in
the contract amount. These funds will be replenished in the 2012 amended budget
from the proceeds of the property interest transfers.
XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Chair Kemp requested that before the Board moved on this action item, if Cheryl Wallace
with the firm of RubinBrown, LLC, could provide their independent findings.
Cheryl Wallace referenced two documents that had been provided to the Board members, the
2011 comprehensive annual financial report (provided May 15) and the Report to Governance
(passed out 5/22). Cheryl referred to the opinion offered by the RubinBrown firm on page 21
of the 2011 comprehensive report. She stated that the financial statement was prepared by
the RTD financial organization represented tonight by Susan Sandoval, Tom Barlow, and
Doug MacLeod. RubinBrown did not have any major findings relevant to this report.
Pertaining to the Report to the Governance, RubinBrown has provided a management letter
with comments on best practices. However, she emphasized there were no findings per se
but just recommendations from a best practice perspective on a few items pertaining to:
 Federal Grant Controls
 Capital Assets Process
 Construction in Progress Process
 GASB 60
 Exposure Draft for Pension Financial Accounting and Reporting
CFO Howerter indicated that RTD agrees with these recommendations and will continue to
review these items.
L.

2011 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report and Report to Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial
reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2011 as prepared by Staff and
audited by the District's independent auditor, RubinBrown, LLP.

MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to
approve the 2011 Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report and Report to
Governance.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,

Tobiassen, Walker and Williams)
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED
Unanimously.

M.

Withdrawal of 2012 FasTracks Financial Plan and DRCOG SB 208 Submittal
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors withdraw the 2012 financial plan and accompanying RTD
2011 Annual Report to DRCOG (SB 208 Report) submitted to DRCOG in
March 2012 for review as required by a DRCOG Board Resolution pursuant to
Senate Bill 90-208. The RTD Board of Directors further directs RTD staff to
develop options for the timing, approach and assumptions to be included in a
new submittal to DRCOG in the summer of 2012, and to report back to the
RTD Board of Directors on this topic on a monthly basis. With this action, the
RTD Board of Directors also confirms that RTD will not pursue a sales and
use tax election in 2012.
MOTION:
Director Cohen made the motion to
approve the action for withdrawal of
2012 FasTracks Plan and DRCOG SB
208 Submittal.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director McMullen commented this is not
the end. He referred to the “Guide to
Ride” campaign and stated his
commitment to the full build out of
FasTracks.

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James,
Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker and Williams)
and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

XII.

OLD BUSINESS

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Cohen announced that he and Chair Kemp would be participating in a media
opportunity early the next morning at the Federal Station.

XIV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Chair Kemp requested a motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose to discuss
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (f) Personnel Matters-General Manager Contract

MOTION:

Director Malpiede made the
motion to enter into executive
session to discuss C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (f) Personnel MattersGeneral Manager Contract

Director Williams seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON THE
MOTION:

The motion PASSED.

The meeting adjourned into Executive Session at 6:30 p.m.
XV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 6:55 P.M.

Prepared and Transcribed by:
___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, May 22, 2012

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Larry Hoy
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
Kathi Williams

District I
District O
District L
District H
District M
District C
District J
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D
District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Susan Altes
L. Skip Brown
Tom Barlow
Jesse Carter
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Libby Cox
Sherry Ellebracht

David Genova
Mike Gil
Lou Ha
Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkins
Marla Lien
Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod

Nate’ Malone
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Scott Reed
Richard Rost
Susan Sandoval
Teresa Sedmak
Dean Shaklee

Bill Sirois
Jim Starling
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Susan Wood
Greg Yates
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT: Witaria Futanto, Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001, Sherman Hamilton, Lee
Johnson, Paul Lopez, Peggy Lopez, Andrew Matusak – Baker, Jacob Riger – DRCOG, David Sale, - Transit
Safety Alliance, Susan Sandoval, John Spight, Chris Taylor – Spectrum AV, Monte Whalley – Denver Post, Ike
Miller, Ravi S – BBRI
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

