2020-08-04 Study Session
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 2:30 p.m. Mountain Daylight Time. And I would respectfully ask everyone in
the meeting to ensure that your phones are muted and that your ringers are set to silent.
So I'm going to start with a safety moment just to make sure that we're all on board in terms of how we're
moving forward. Please frequently and thoroughly wash your hands. Monitor your health and the health of
those close to you to. And be particularly alert to the three most prevalent symptoms of COVID-19, fever,
coughing, and shortness of breath. Minimize the time you spend in poorly ventilated indoor public areas,
especially when a large number of people are present. And wear a mask at all times.
With that, I'd like to go ahead and let you know that today we are going to be discussing the path looking
forward, finances and services. Today we're going to hear a presentation from Heather McKillop, RTD's
chief financial officer and assistant general manager of finance and administration, and Mr. Bruce Able,
our director of special projects. The agency has been receiving revised financial figures and forecast on a
monthly basis in order to gauge the ongoing fiscal impacts of COVID-19. Heather and Bruce will be
speaking to the effect of the revenue shortfall on the agency's midterm financial planning efforts.
For those directors who have signed on to this meeting via the web browser, please note that there is a
hand raise icon. But some of you have it and some of you don't. So once the presentation is completed, I
will call on every board member to be able to make any kind of comments or questions, whether you're on
the Zoom or on by phone. And with that, I'll turn it over to Heather and Bruce for their presentation.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. So we're going to walk you
through this presentation. And I'm going to start the walkthrough. And then Bruce will take over for a little
bit, and then Jeff Becker, and then finally, Bruce will wrap it up. So we're going to tag team you here a
little bit.
So next slide. Just a reminder of what our mission is. We move people. Next slide. As we've been
discussing with you since we started this at the end of March, we're going to continue as times are
changing to update you on both revenue forecasts as well as leading to what we can do to help mitigate
our shortfalls going into '21 through '26 but also the 2021 budget. So just a reminder that we are
continuing to do that. And the chair mentioned that in her opening statement too. Next slide.
OK. So I'm going to cover the updated cash flows. What we've included in your packet is on the next
slide, which talks about the shortfalls that we are projecting based on that July forecast. I have also
included in your agenda packet the updated detail cash flows, which walk through the detail year by year.
In the essence of time, because we have a lot to cover today, we're not going to go through those detail
sheets. But I wanted you to have them because that will be the basis by which we will try to solve the
shortfalls that exist. But I did want you to see what's on the screen.
So when we met last, we talked about using the mid or medium forecast based on what was provided by
the leads' July numbers. We have included those numbers in the blue. So for instance in 2021, the
shortfall is estimated to be 166 million, 2022 $168 million, 2023 145 million, et cetera.
However, the board also asked that we come up with a more pessimistic forecast that was middle of the
road between what leads provided us, their worst case, and the medium case. And so those are the
numbers that are reflected in orange. So you can see $205 million in 2021, 226 million in 2022, et cetera.
So that would be kind of our worst case scenario that we would be aiming for.

And as you can see then in 2025 is kind of our worst year, a shortfall of almost $300 million. And then that
drops significantly in 2026. Now some of that we'll talk about later gets to some of these expenditures that
are in some of these years, such as the 119 project. You can see on the detailed cash flow the new bus
maintenance facility and those type of things. So those shortfalls could be adjusted if we decided to defer
projects that are listed in those out years on those detailed sheets. But that will come up at a later time.
But I wanted to provide you the range. I'm sorry there's a fire truck going by. So I wanted to provide you
the range that we're looking at. Now one of the caveats I want to mention before I move on is that we will
be discussing fares at the next meeting next week on the 11th. That could have an impact what we
decide to do as far as fare increases.
These current numbers assume that we have a fare increase in 2022 and 2025. If that changes, these
shortfalls could get larger. So I just wanted to mention that.
Next slide. So go to the next slide again. Tools to help us balance. And I'm going to turn it over to Bruce
at this time just start talking about those tools that are at the board's disposal.
BRUCE ABEL: Thanks, Heather. Thank you, Madam Chair and Board. I just wanted to take a moment to
talk about, A, a brief update on the COVID fiscal task force and, B, just a-- I don't know if I'd call it a
reminder or refresher of some of the tools that we have discussed previously at being at the board's
disposal to help us address the fiscal shortfall.
So first of all, in terms of the task force, so back in June, the task force was formed when Paul
asked/directed directed me to head up a task force to address the fiscal shortfall that we were facing, we
asked the AGMs to submit departmental self-assessments for each department. The purpose of these
self-assessments was, or the direction that was provided was, please talk about how you would propose
adjusting the functions and staffing levels in your department in face of major financial shortfalls. Back
when we started the process, we were talking about approximately 255 million. Today, based on the most
recent leads forecast, we're looking at addressing a shortfall of 166 million, as Heather just alluded to, in
2021.
So the AGMs were directed to assume that all capital projects would be canceled and that the agency
would be providing a level of service approximately 40% to 50% lower than pre-COVID. And as you may
recall, we are currently providing a level of service that's about 40% lower than pre-COVID. And that's
what we are providing through our COVID service plan. So essentially, the AGMs were directed to
assume that we would continue operating a level of service approximately that which we are delivering
today, perhaps slightly lower, and, again, providing an assessment as to how they would adjust their
staffing, their processes, their projects, their programs, et cetera accordingly.
So those submittals were turned in on June 19. Task force members reviewed all of those submittals.
Subsequently, we have met with each of the AGMs to discuss their submittals to make sure we
understood what it was they were proposing as well as their perspective as well as to share our
perspective with them regarding our assessment of their proposals.
So that project has been completed for all departments save one, which we did ask to be redone. That
has just been resubmitted. We are in the process of reviewing that and so we hope to wrap up that
portion of the task force work next week. We are anticipating completing work in the next couple of weeks
on the specific recommendations so that they can be incorporated into the midterm financial plan
conversations that you all will be discussing in a study session at August the 25th.

So in addition to the COVID task force, there have been a number of tools that we have also discussed
previously as being available to the board should you so choose. First is the question as to whether or not
the board would be willing to use reserves. So we'll be discussing each of these tools further as we move
through the conversation today. Wanted to introduce them all right now and just sort of briefly recap what
those tools are.
So again, we have reserves in the base system. We have reserves in the FasTracks system. Those are
tools that are available to the board. We have the FISA. And we bifurcated this into two potential tools.
One is future years' contribution to the FISA, the FasTracks' internal savings account, and the second is
the existing balance in the FISA. Does the board wish to potentially use those tools?
We've already talked about the COVID task force. We'll have reductions in administrative overhead. And
then we've got service reductions. Now we've put service reductions at the bottom of this list, not that the
rest were in any order of priority, but service reductions in terms of your guiding principles.
Your guiding principles will be that service reductions should not be our primary response. We'll be
creative. We'll take a balanced approach to budget reductions and do so in such a way as to align with
our mission, which is move people. So service reductions should be minimized so as to minimize the
impact on our customers. So just want to share with you that that is the philosophy that we have, along
with all of the other guiding principles, adhered to as we move forward.
Now I know that one of the other conversations that's taken place is, well, the service reductions just
mean reducing service or looking at alternative service delivery models in partnership with local
governments, et cetera, because that's been a topic that's come up through Reimagine. I want to share
with you that the answer to that is yes. We will also be looking at alternative service delivery models, not
just reductions of service.
But at the last Reimagine meeting, the people on the advisory committee that were with municipalities
reiterated that municipalities and counties would like to partner with us but the 2021 was not a great time
to do that because they are in the same financial shortfall posture as we are as a result of reduced sales
tax that have hit the municipalities and the counties as well as RTD. So we continue to have
conversations regarding about alternative service delivery models. And we'll address some of those later.
But I did want to just raise that question or raised that issue. This is not being overlooked. And we'll
discuss it further. But with that, I'd like to turn it back over to Heather to start the conversation regarding
the reserves.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Next slide, please. So I just want to talk a little bit about what these numbers are
and what they mean. So I'm going to start with the base system. So at the very top, we have the base
board appropriated and the unrestricted operating reserve. Both of those numbers you can see did not
change moving forward. Those were the numbers we anticipated having originally in the original 2020
budget at the end of the year as part of our contribution to the three month operating reserve that the
board would like us to achieve.
Those numbers did not achieve that three months at the time that we passed the budget. So I just want to
make sure it's clear that we did not start the year with three months of operating reserve. We started the
year closer to one month of operating reserve.
The base unrestricted fund is where we put the funds that came out of the amended budget when the
board took the action to want to set aside the $25 million. And we were able to come up with more than
the $25 million. We came up with 39.7. That's where that number came from. So that is what we're

estimating to have available at the end of the year at the end of 2020 based on the actions that we took in
the amended budget.
So before we move forward, this is what we anticipated having before you adopted the July forecast. So
then you'll see the top two numbers don't change. But on the base unrestricted fund, with the July
forecast, even using the low forecast for 2020, we're going to estimate that we're going to see about
$20.3 million more than what we had when we used the May forecast. So based on that, we're
anticipating that we'll have $60 million available at the end of the year that we can apply potentially for
future years. So that ends the year with $101.8 million estimated in the base system.
Now one thing I want to point out that the $101.8 million still does not get us to even the three months
reserve. It's closer to right about two months and a week reserve or two and 1/2 months but not quite at
the three. But I just wanted to give you that number for reference.
Then on the FasTracks, you can see we started the year with a beginning fund balance of $179.7 million.
And you ask why is that so high. Well, it was high because we were anticipating that we would have
significant shortfalls already in FasTracks, if you remember correctly, prior to the COVID. So we were
hoping to use those dollars to offset future years. But that money is available for that purpose.
We then have the FasTrack management reserve which has also not changed since what we originally
estimated in the budget. And then we have the FasTracks internal savings account as you're aware. This
is the amount that we anticipate going into 2021. So it does not include the 2021 contribution but doesn't
include the contribution for rubber tire service from 2020. So that's estimated to be 119.6 million. I just put
a note in there that this is not counted towards the three month reserve. And then we have the boardappropriated capital fund for FasTracks, which all count towards the three months, and the FasTracks
unrestricted.
That leaves us, if you just look at the three months, we have about $13.5 million higher than we needed
for the three months. In addition to that, we have the starting fund balance of 179.7. And we have the
FasTracks' internal savings account. Also listed on your detailed sheets that I have provided in the back,
we do show by year what the estimated contribution would be to FasTracks' internal savings account.
And that is on the second page, which is the FasTracks cash flow.
And it's on line 20. So you can see by year what those estimated contributions would be. And we'll be
reviewing that a little bit later just to remind you of that. But we did break that out between what is existing
in the fund and also what would the future contributions be. So that is what our reserves look like or what
we think our reserves will look like at the end of 2020 going into 2021.
One of the things we'll talk about later too but keep in mind is that we have to be careful about using them
all in one year to solve the problem because, as we've shown you on those detailed sheets, we have a
multi-year problem that totals well over $1.4 billion. So we have to be really careful about how we allocate
out those dollars so that we can balance all the way out to 2026. So with that, I'm going to go to the next
slide.
So on the next slide, we talk about, again, back to the tools, as Bruce mentioned, we have the dollars that
will come out of the Fiscal Response Task Force. So we're not sure what those dollars are. Bruce is going
to talk a little bit more about those. But those will further solidify over the next couple of weeks. As he
mentioned, he's working on narrowing those dollars down where we can make those reductions.
Then we have the internal savings account, which I mentioned previously. We've broken out that
separately. $119.6 million does not include the 2021 in future contributions. And then we've listed the

contributions separately for you that are anticipated at this time to the FasTracks internal savings
account. And again, those are listed on line 20 of the detail pages if you want to look there.
BRUCE ABLE: Stay there because of-- and so I'd just like to elaborate a little bit on what Heather has just
commented on. And what I'd like to do is talk about process. And I want to give some examples. And so
in order to give some examples, I'm going to provide some numbers. But please understand that we're
not asking the board to commit to these numbers but we do need to understand what the board is and is
not willing to consider because we've got a pretty short period of time within which to bring forward, well,
the midterm financial plan will lead into the service plan for January and the 2021 budget.
So again, these numbers are examples only. And I want to walk through a process to illustrate. So
basically, we're starting with $166 million shortfall as we've addressed. And in order to address the
guiding principles, we wanted to minimize service reductions because that's our core mission. But this is
still a pretty heavy lift, because 166 million still represents about 25% of our normal operating and
maintenance budget.
So while I know we all feel good that this isn't the $250 million hole we were trying to fill last month, $166
million hole is still pretty substantial. I don't know how many of you remember the first conversation we
had about this when we were talking about $250 million hole and I used the term daunting.
I use the term an extremely heavy lift. And I think that a number of you thought I was being pessimistic
because you said so. But I want to share at that point in time when we were looking at a $250 million
hole, I was hard pressed to think of how we were going to resolve that issue without essentially-- well,
how we would resolve that issue and continue to provide a meaningful level of service to our customers.
But if we start off with $166 million shortfall, if we were then to take a look at the fiscal task force, let's say
we could get $15 to $20 million savings out of the fiscal task force. These savings would be the result of
personnel adjustment, program and process refinements so that-- and for purposes of ease of math, I'm
going to use a 20 million figure. That would then mean the $166 million hole is now $146 million hole if we
are able to get 20 million out of the COVID task force. And please understand when I'm using these
numbers, the final numbers are still in process. But that is not an insignificant number relative to our
administrative costs.
Secondly, well, we just discussed reserves. Again, I'm going to give some examples. We're not
committing the board. But we're trying to get some guidance from the board as to what you are and aren't
willing to use to balance our shortfall. If we were to use, for example, $45 million between both the base
and FasTracks, that would then take our $145 million hole down to about $100 million hole to solve for.
So again, just illustrating the process as we're looking at it and looking at the different tools and how they
might be used.
So then when we look at the internal-- and let me go down to the future contributions to FICA. You may
recall that the original FasTracks language had funding to support 1% growth per year in rubber tired
service. In 2012, the board created the FISA and directed that this funding go into the FISA in order to
build more rail to help try to offset some of the sales tax declines that came out during the 2007 2011
recessions because it resulted in far lower revenues than had been anticipated when FasTracks was
initially passed.
So the board directed that this money go into the FISA as opposed to going into rubber tired service
growth. But if, for example, the board were willing to say that in 2021 we were to redirect that back to

rubber first service, then again our $105 million shortfall would shrink down to about the 80, 85 millionish
range.
So if we were to use all of those tools, and again the numbers can be adjusted between the various tools,
we can come very close to maintaining the current 40% reduction in service from pre-COVID levels. If
we're not able to generate these types of savings through the use of the various tools, we will need to
reduce service more than the level that we're currently providing. So that's just an example of process,
how these tools can be applied.
We would start with 166, reduce that shortfall by various amounts attributable to the various tools that are
available to us, and then we would be using service as the balancing mechanism. So with that, I'd like to
turn it over to Jeff Becker. And Jeff would walk us through how service has responded during the COVID
service reduction period. So Jeff, I'd like to turn it over to you. Next slide, please.
Is Jeff there? Are you unmuted, Jeff?
ROGER SHERMAN: Bruce, we may-- do we know, is Jeff just on the phone?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, he might be.
BRUCE ABEL: Let me call him very quickly. [INTERPOSING VOICES].
Jeff, are you there? Well, in that case I think I will walk through Jeff's presentation in the absence of Jeff.
So just in terms of context-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Next slide.
BRUCE ABEL: Next slide, please. So in terms of context, you know, RTD, along with much of the
industry, has been seeing declining ridership in the past several years. A lot of that decline has come
from disadvantaged groups as they have increased automobile ownership at the disadvantage of transit.
Our investment has been essentially in rail and BRT service. And some of that discretionary ridership has
been maintained or increased as we have sought out more of a suburban commuter market.
But since the advent of COVID, the lower income and equity populations have constituted a large majority
of the workers that are still using transit and occupy the essential jobs. And so therefore, they are still
using transit. Higher income office workers are more likely to work from home. And as we go through the
ridership information, you'll see how this is reflected in our various changes in ridership.
The analysis has been conducted by the service development department. Next slide, please. So Jeff and
his team have put together the data, which we're about to review, using two run boards-- April of 2019,
one year prior to COVID, and then the period of April 1 through mid-June during COVID-19, or as we
refer to it, as the Pandemic 2020. So when you see references to Pan 20, that's the shorthand for the
Pandemic 2020 service plan.
Basically, that service plan is maintain a Saturday level of service throughout the week on bus and
Sunday levels of service on rail. And that service reduction was implemented on April the 19th of 2020.
The mall shuttle was turned off at that time, but was restored on June 20, 21. And similarly, during that
time, the routes 15L, 4105, and 121 have been beefed up in order to accommodate overloads that
resulted from the physical, social distancing capacity constraints that were implemented on RTD buses.
So as you may recall, we can now accommodate 15 people on a traditional bus, 20 people on an Artic
(Articulated Bus), et cetera. And so we are essentially operating at about one-third of the capacity on
each vehicle. And similarly on rail, I believe the number is 30 people per car. So we are essentially
operating at about one-third capacity per vehicle for the system.

This will become very germane as we get further in the conversation. Fares were restored on July 1 and
we went back to front door boarding. So the next slide, please.
You can see how ridership has changed by hour of the day. The blue line on these charts shows 2019
ridership. And you can see the two-humped camel corresponding to our morning and afternoon peaks,
and how pronounced it was on a weekday in 2019. And the orange line down below shows our ridership
during the pandemic. So that you can see that we have gone from a peak of about 35,000 in the PM peak
last year to a peak of about 10,000 and a very constant ridership pattern during the pandemic.
Similarly, Saturday boardings by time of day-- again, we show a much more peaked character last year
and a flattened character this year. Next slide, please.
So the service development group looked at our ridership in a couple of different ways-- averaged
ridership as well as retention from pre-COVID levels. And so as the math works out, you can see in the
charts the percentage of 2019 ridership in April that was retained during the pandemic.
So local service has by far the highest weekday retention. 45% of our ridership has been retained on our
local services. Commuter rail, especially the A, was the next highest, where we have retained about 30%
of our services. And the third tier of normal light rail, SkyRide, FlexRide, about 23% of our ridership has
stayed with us. And when we look at the Flatiron Flyer, about 13% of our weekday ridership has stayed
with us during the pandemic.
We can see that weekends, we have retained higher proportions of our ridership except for commuter rail
and SkyRide. So this will be, again, important as we move through the conversations here about how we
allocate future resources. But this tells us where people have continued to ride and where people have
not continued to ride during the pandemic.
So the next slide, please, gives us some of the rides. The local and weekend service riders are
predominantly people who depend on transit for much of their travel. They also tend to be occupying the
essential frontline jobs to keep the economy going. Light rail and FlexRide is heavily dependent on
downtown and suburban office commuters who now are, to a large extent, working from home.
Flatiron Flyer and other regional service are even more heavily peak hour commuter-oriented. And
SkyRide is dependent upon airlines, employments, and air travel. And these are markets that have not
held up during the pandemic. Next slide, please.
So under the category of every picture tells a story, I think that this really illustrates where our ridership
has held up during the pandemic. So as indicated that retention is one of the key indicators of how
dependent our customers are on our services.
You can see the broad red lines running east-west, which is Colfax, and north-south, Federal, and in
other routes are services that have retained in excess of 80% of-- well, 60%, to 80%, to 100% of their prepandemic ridership.
Similarly, the heavy blue lines are retaining 40% to 60% of prior ridership. You see one of those blue lines
is the A line out to the airport. You see West Colfax, you see Broadway. So you can see which routes
have retained the ridership since we've gone into the COVID service levels.
And you may recall when we showed several weeks, months ago what routes we've had to beef up with
our extra board and follower services. You see a lot of correlation between those routes and these routes
here.
For rail, only the C line is moderate retention. Indicates the southwest might have a bit of a larger share of
workers that are dependent on transit to get to work. Next slide, please.

And so again, maximum loads, which is another ridership factor, show how the routes are being impacted
by our capacity constraints. Again 15 on a traditional bus, 20 on an Artic, 30 on a rail car. Not many
routes are failing this metric.
But you can see those routes that, again, are exceeding the capacity due to the capacity constraints. And
as we've discussed previously, we have not shrunk our workforce. We have retained riders-- or retained
operators to serve as loop extras, operators on buses strategically placed throughout the community to
respond to overloads as they can follow a scheduled bus that is overloaded. And you can see where
those occurrences take place.
But the bottom line-- the bottom line on these two, the map before this and this map, the heavy lines are
where we have good ridership. The light lines, the very thin lines, are where ridership has mass continued
during the pandemic. Next slide, please.
This is just an example of how ridership might come back. But this just shows New York City, what
they've-- what they have experienced and how we are experiencing ridership going down to about 30%
and now coming back to just a tad over 40%. We've come back and we've been fairly constant.
And if you take a look, and if you were to extend this through the period after fares were reinstituted, you
will see a slight dip. And then again, constant levels of ridership. Next slide, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: He may be unmuted now.
BRUCE ABEL: Vehicle requirements, just again matching our ridership and our vehicles, as an example
of how the COVID ridership has matched up to even our current levels of service. So the bottom line, in
summary-- next slide, please. Right now our ridership is dominantly those who rely on transit as their
primary means of transportation.
So as we look forward, we would project need to focus on consistent, all-day service, to again help those
that rely on transit. And you've heard us in the Reimagine committees talk about the equity markets. A big
issue, how are we going to address the social distancing requirements, especially in light of moving into
2021 when we no longer have CARES Act funding to provide funding for lots of follower buses.
We need to continue to monitor how schools and employees, employers are going to respond. I'm not
telling any of you anything new. When you talk-- when we talk about the fact that schools are still in a
state of flux. And needless to say, we're going to follow the CBA, no matter what we do, as we formulate
the restoration of service.
So this is sort of a snapshot as to how ridership has responded during the pandemic. And with that, just
like to move to the next session-- next section. Susan?
I'd like to turn it back over to Heather to just sort of recap the principles. And then I'll come back to me.
And we'll sort of wrap it up and open for questions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Next slide, please. So just a reminder. And we mentioned these a little earlier in
the presentation, that we're trying to follow the reduction principles that were identified and passed by the
board recently. And so trying to balance those-- all of those, and I'll address those as we move through
this process so that we can identify how we've addressed those as we present options to you.
So we can go to the next one. Next slide. So I'm going to turn it back to Bruce to talk a little bit me-- do
you want me to go through this one? Yeah.
So Bruce, just to wrap up on where we are with the challenges and the tools again that we have
available. And we have identified our next steps. So with that, Bruce?

BRUCE ABEL: I really want to be very explicit in what our ask is from today's conversation. What we're
asking for is board guidance to advise us as to what tools the board is willing to consider and what tools
the board is not willing to consider.
We need to establish a dollar target for the January 2021 service plan as well as for the mid-term financial
plan. The service plan needs to be presented to the ops committee on September the 15th, taken out to
the public and socialized, and adopted on October 27th.
So as you can see, the period between today, August 4th and September 15th is about six weeks. That is
not a long time to develop the service plan in response to the dollar targets that we have to work with. So
we need to understand the board's thinking relative to the short-term, focus for January of 2021, and how
we want to look at pandemic versus continuing levels of service, focused on equity communities, versus
continuing or trying to provide something for everyone. And that's really sort of the essence of part of our
conversation.
You may recall that the TWG and the AC, the technical working group and the advisory committee from
the Reimagine task force, had suggested that in the short run, the very fiscally sustainable plan perhaps
should focus on those folks that have been riding with us during the pandemic because they obviously
rely on our services and hold the essential jobs. So we might want to focus more on equity communities.
As we grow out of the COVID constrained plan, conversation has been that we would add service back to
become more balanced in terms of approaches that reflect the broader balance discussed in Reimagine,
the balance between a coverage plan, a social equity plan, a focus on high ridership and high
productivity.
But really, the challenge, the initial plan, is that we need to establish a dollar target for the service plan
and the mid-term financial plan for 2021 so that we can then build forward.
So how would we resolve $166 million shortfall? We've got reserves at the board's disposal. We've got
the outcomes of the COVID-19 fiscal response task force. We've got future contributions to the FISA.
We've got the existing balance of the FISA. And we've got service reductions.
So again, I want to address in the service reductions, we also have the capacity to be looking at the
replacement of fixed route services with alternative service models. We have, for example, been in touch
with Lyft. As we look at-- and I'm just providing some examples here.
Now as we look at the EV, service from Evergreen, it's currently carrying four passengers on average,
four passengers per trip. The CV from Pine Junction, currently carrying on average four passengers per
trip. The GS between Golden and Boulder, currently providing, on average, three passengers per trip.
The RX between Brighton and Denver, currently carrying, on average, five passengers per trip.
For every trip that we continue to provide carrying three or four passengers, we are going to be leaving
passengers standing on Colfax because we are going to have extremely limited financial resources.
Without the CARES Act carrying forward in 2021, we no longer have the capacity to provide carrier-excuse me, follower buses, when a bus meets it reaches capacity. And there are people standing on the
corner.
When we get to 2021, we will not have the luxury of carrying additional operators. We will be limited to the
service that's scheduled. And as we reach capacity constraints, people will be left standing.
So we have, for example, been in contact with Lyft to talk with us about what would the cost be, perhaps,
to do something in the Evergreen to Denver market, in the Golden to Boulder market, in the Pine Junction

to Denver market, in the Brighton to Denver market. We have also been, in the past, been looking at, and
used, van pools to replace regional services that have not necessarily been performing up to snuff.
So the two aspects are really guidance from the board, and the primary ask, guidance from the board on
the tools that are available to us so we can size the finances available to us, and then some sense of
where the board's at regarding focusing on those limited resources on equity communities as we move
forward in the next five to six weeks in preparing the January service plan.
So with that, just talk about the next steps. Today's study session, that on the 11th we will have the F and
A committee. As Heather already alluded, we'll be discussing fares.
On the 25th, we have a study session to further discuss options. But at this point, we will need to have
concrete dollar decisions made by the board. September 1st, conversations again on the options and
concrete dollars. September 15th at F and A, we will be looking for the adoption of the mid-term financial
plan built on the dollar figures that we've introduced today or the dollar concepts we've introduced today
and the options that we've been discussing, also introducing the January run board and the first draft of
the 2021 budget.
October 20th, the operations committee to forward the January run board to the full board. October 27th,
the adoption of the January run board. And November 17th, the adoption of the '21 budget.
So that you can see, we have a great many decisions to be made over the next several weeks. It's a
heavy lift.
And so I think that one of the things we'll just point out to the board, we have we need to discuss the fact
that in the COVID-- current COVID service reductions, we have kept everyone on payroll. This has
allowed us to do follower buses, which we won't be able to do in the future. Furloughs were implemented
for non-represented employees. But the executive committee directed the GM and staff to not implement
furloughs or layoffs in represented.
And so the current savings that we're looking for under the current COVID plan, the only savings that we
are recognizing are from non-scheduled overtime. And so that will not be providing us a cushion to move
into January of 2021.
One area where we do have some flexibility for '21, under our normal process. We will have A may run
board. So decisions that we make for implementation in January, we will have the capability to revisit for
the May run board. If finances come in more optimistic than we were projecting currently, we will have the
opportunity to react in a more optimistic manner. If services come in lower than currently our forecast and
projected, we will have the opportunity to again adjust accordingly and find ways to further reduce
service.
The reason why we want to move forward, obviously with the January run board, is we need the full
impact of 12 months in 2021 to impact our budget in a meaningful way. We will only have six or seven
months of impact after the May run board is approved.
So with that, the two asks are to get some guidance from the board relative to the board's willingness to
use various tools, and we can then discuss the various dollar levels, and some conversation with the
board relative to the perspective on the January run board. But perhaps if we were to start the initial
conversation with these tools available to us, because that will then lead to the service conversation.
With that, Heather, any closing comments?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Nope, I have no further thoughts right now. We'll be glad to take questions.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Thank you all for that presentation. What I'd like to do is go
ahead and start the lead through all the board members. I'm just going to call your name. If you have any
questions or would like to suggest any tools or kind of other functions [AUDIO OUT] to do so.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Is it star 6?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I'll come back to you. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Is my audio OK? Because, Madam Chair, your is a little tinny
and echo-y.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh no, you're fine.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thanks for the presentation. Is there any way we can pull up the slide that talks
about our budget principles and has principle number two up there?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, we can go back.
VINCE BUZEK: There it is. OK, I'll get to that in a second. So there's been a lot of talk about the FISA
because it's the low hanging fruit and the easy target for us. But I'll have to say, and I've said it before and
keep saying it over and over, I don't believe the FISA should be touched.
Some people have referred to it as a sacred cow in saying. We can have no sacred cows. But I think we
can and we must. And this is the cow. I hear it mooing, right? We need to keep FISA in place for a lot of
reasons, not the least of which are the letters the board and the senior staff have received from every
stakeholder group in the north and the northwest asking that the FISA be preserved for the purposes it
was designed for. And that is to complete the uncompleted fast track project.
Many of you may remember a letter last year from our governor imploring us to work on finishing the
northwest rail line. If you take away the FISA, you take away that possibility.
Granted, the FISA will not cover the cost of the northwest rail or the completion of the north rail line.
However, it can be a local match for a grant opportunity that comes up in the future. And we no longer
have the local match to take advantage of the opportunity. And so we may lose opportunities in the future
if we dip into the FISA.
So my direction would be the FISA current balance and future contributions should be off-limits. We
should go to our reserves other than FISA. We should look at reducing overhead and we should consider
service reductions. And as our budget reduction principle number two says, that kind of a service-- when
we should look at service reductions that are creative.
And Bruce Abel, you were coming up with some creative ones. Those remote routes that have very few
passengers, if we can work with Lyft, or Uber, or other providers to provide an option, I think people would
be happier with that than just completely having their service cut. But as long as there's some kind of an
option, at least short-term until we can get ourselves back on our feet, I'm happy to consider stuff like that.
When we look at those maps too, here's the other thing that concerns me, is that we go back to last year
when we kicked off Reimagine with a presentation by Jarrett Walker. And ever since that presentation,
even though we claimed to have not adopted his principles, we've adopted his principles. We're looking at
ridership versus coverage, and how do you make things work, and how do you balance things?
And, you know, the problem I have with the presentation and perhaps its interpretation is that you can
pick the easy way out of there, right? You can just pick on well, if it's easy to provide a service where the
ridership exists, then let's not worry too much about the coverage. But we need to worry about the

coverage. And so maybe if we get creative as our budget reduction principle number two talks about, that
might get us there.
So I've said this stuff before. I'm going to keep saying it. But thanks for your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: I don't think you can hear me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can.
BOB BROOM: Oh, you can? OK, well my foot my position on the tools is that I would use 20% of the
reserves, including the FISA reserves. I would put on hold the future contributions to FISA. And I would
also take 20% from what you call administrative costs.
And then I don't know what to do so much on the service reduction side, other than the we should have
less overtime required. The other thing is we're going to have to quickly come off of this social distancing
thing because that's going to kill us. And in the longer run, we'll start a service level-out. And then we're
just going to get hammered because we can't-- as people start to use-- use our service more, we're not
going to have room form on our equipment unless we do away or modify substantially what the rules are.
Those are my thoughts. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam. Director Broom, my thoughts are very much in line with yours.
Although I've had a number of constituents who have been patiently waiting for service to be restored
when their routes were eliminated due to COVID, and now that business is opening back up and their
downtown commutes are opening back up, they're very, very anxious to see that some of that service
gets restored.
That does not look to be the case. And it's not realistic. But I would respectfully disagree with Director
Buzek. In 2004 when the Fast Tracks plan commenced, it promised to enhance [INAUDIBLE] service
throughout the district, including suburb to suburb. When the FISA account was created, that completely
eliminated any hope of that, which was also a commitment to voters.
And so I believe that, although we do have reserves in the FISA account-- and I think those should be
preserved, I do not believe that going forward in this short-term, that we should continue contributing to
the FISA count given the over $1 billion shortfall that we're facing through 2026.
So I would suggest, much as Director Broom had suggested, that we take a hard look at our overhead. I
would prefer to keep what we can in our reserves, although maybe reduce it back down to maybe a
month and a half or two months, I would suggest as a compromise to keep the existing FISA account
intact but to no longer contribute in the ensuing years to the FISA account.
And then finally, as a last resort just based on comments I've received from constituents, at the very last
resort, look at cutting service. I do believe that it's important to keep those people who have been
dependent on our service so that they have the capability of accessing it. And I recognize that bites into
the whole coverage argument. But I think that in the short term, we do have to make some trade-offs.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So are we doing one round for input-- or one round for questions and then
input? My worry has been that we just got this information, including some specifics from Bruce that
sound pretty similar to what might be a proposal coming forward. And we haven't had a chance to ask
questions, get more information, even consider it for a few days.

So I just want to indicate there that I am worried about the quality of our decision-making on the moment,
on the spur of the moment right here. And I wish we could take a few days to kind of mull it over or take it
up again at our finance meeting on Tuesday. It wouldn't be much of a delay.
But if I can take both-- if it's both that we're doing now, getting feedback and questions, I do have a
couple of questions. And then I will add some thoughts. Is that OK, Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, let me ask the question that you posed. Ms. McKillop and Bruce,
would it be OK that we do our first round today and then take it up on the committee meeting on
Tuesday?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. I think we would love to hear from everybody that
has comments and questions today. And there will also be an opportunity at the Finance Administration
Committee, when we talk about fares, to have people comment at that time also. But we really-- we do
really need input today so we can at least start formulating what we want. And we can take additional
input next week at the Finance Administration Committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
BRUCE ABEL: Both comments and questions at this stage would be fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So Second Vice Chair Cook, does that work for you?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. So if it's OK, I'll do a little bit of both and try to keep it brief. So Bruce Abel, in
looking at your the breakdowns that you gave-- did I calculate it correctly that-- roughly calculated that
12% is what you're identifying from the task force, 27% from reserves?
And those reserves that you're identifying are from Base and Fast Tracks? And then the current year's
contributions for 2021, are you suggesting all contributions and then somehow be programmed in the
current year for FISA? So Or are you just suggesting that for 2021, that you look at the $17.7 million?
What were you talking about there?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, in answer to the question, I was focused on 2021 when I was talking about
the $17.7 million. But obviously as we look at the mid-term financial plan, we need to look at that within
the context of the whole six-year planning period.
So I don't want to be too parochial. But we're quite focused on January 2021 from both a service plan and
a budget perspective. But we do also need to be looking at the longer range impacts to balance the whole
period.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
BRUCE ABEL: [INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So if I subtracted all those correctly, that meant that we were looking at service
savings at about 50% of the total needed. Does that sound about right?
BRUCE ABEL: I'm going to have to flip a page here. But that does sound about right.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So the thing we don't have is a lot of information about what this means. I know
there is a bit duration going on with the Reimagine, optimization, et cetera. But this is one of those where
the devil's in the details. And knowing that would be helpful.
I want to echo something that Vince said. Those creative approaches need to be brought to the fore, in
my opinion and including the suggestion that Natalie has made, for example, about vouchers. If we can't

provide any service, even a flexible Flex Ride or on demand partnership in the coming year, at least
offering something for areas that are completely unserved might be a possibility.
And secondly, I'm a little bit jittery about using so much of our reserves right at the get-go here, including
the FISA account. I certainly don't want to use any of the funds that are stockpiled there. I'm open to using
that, or just foregoing the contribution for the next few years, or taking it on a year by year basis. But
preserving the balance of the FISA account there.
I wonder whether we're using the correct data, the best data for projecting ridership. Because April and
May, everything bottomed out. But we're talking about 2021. Presumably, sometime in the first quarter, or
at most first half, we'll have a vaccine and won't be on a complete shutdown.
And so I would think that using the numbers that we're starting to see emerge-- I have some of them-would be helpful. I put them together into a chart. And it's striking, for example, how the A line is
rebounding and how some of the light rail lines similarly, how the G line.
So I think that we ought to revisit whether we use that as our basis for comparison, and projection, and
planning for it. And let's see what else-- and then I want to push a little bit harder on the overhead as well,
as has been offered by, I think, most of the directors preceding me. So that's all for right now. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, can I just make one comment? This is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I just want to mention on administrative costs-- and we don't know what that
number is going to be. But do remember that in 2020 already, we have reduced the administrative
overhead by 20%, so over almost $30 something million. And that was after we did administrative
reductions in 2019. Also so I just want to make sure they you're aware, that you're not forgetting what
already has been reduced in overhead. So we're starting from a much lower number in the reduction that
Bruce is talking about because we've already assumed those things aren't coming back. So I just wanted
to point that out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Folska, are you on the line? OK, I'll come back.
Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thanks for the good presentation. It was especially helpful to see
how our numbers are coming back in and all of that. I want to start with a question for Bruce.
When you were giving your example-- I think it was page 11 or 12 of the packet, we talked about $45
billion from Fast Tracks. And then you talked about taking the contributions to the FISA. Did I understand
that? What was that $45 million from?
BRUCE ABEL: The $45 million was an example of reserves from both Fast Tracks and Base system, just
in terms of the examples. So that would have meant, for example, we've got $361 million in the Fast
Tracks reserve, $101 million in the Base reserve, total of $460 million, And I was just throwing out a
potential number of $45 million between those two reserves.
LYNN GUISSINGER: From existing-- OK, and then the FISA. You know, I guess that I have concerns
about taking the FISA. I get it that we're needing money badly. But there are a couple a couple of
thoughts I have.

One is that, you know, they're in such a time of flux that we just don't know what money we're going to
have. And I agree that we have to guess kind of low and add back in. And I guess that would be a
question, is what's the plan to add back in?
You know, we had a meeting, Bill Van Meader and Sherry Ellebracht and Judy Lubow and I, talked about
what's going on with front range passenger rail, that Sal Pace is talking to Senator Gardner's office about
$2 billion to move forward with that. And they're looking at whether that would go with what the lineup
would be. Would it be northwest, north rail, up in there?
Same thing with Amtrak. They're looking for $3 billion. I think that, if I got this right, it's in the
appropriations bill that's been passed and that this corridor it would be one of the corridors that they
would be looking at at the top. All of that is very speculative. I get that.
But, you know, this is money that would be our match if anything came along like that. And I also think, I
guess, that this needs to-- this needs to be really recognized, as Vince said, that, you know, it's a matter
of importance. And we've said this before to the governor, to a lot of people in the state, that, you know,
this would be seen as a decision about north line and northwest rail. And it certainly needs to be
discussed with the 36 mayors and commissioners.
It's sort of like, Bruce at the end you raise the issue of layoffs. And these are all sensitive issues and it
can't be-- I don't feel like we can give a head nod today. I certainly will not give a head nod to it today. I
think that layoffs after all of our workforce problems really needs to be a full-- needs analysis, when are
we coming back, explaining to the public and our riders why this makes sense.
And I think-- I think the same is true taking any of the contributions to the FISA. It's hard for me to look six
years down the road and say it makes sense to take contributions to FISA because so much is
hypothetical at this point.
So I agree with the administrative-- I guess I learned yesterday that we're still hiring bus operators. And
I'm not clear why that is. And it seems like we might start with that. So those are my comments. I would
not be ready to move forward at this point with the taking FISA. But, you know, I think we need to discuss
things and see where we are. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, are you on the line? I can come back. Director
Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can. Can you hear me?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. All right, at least that's something. You know, I'm feeling-- well, I'm feeling
uncomfortable giving head nods because we don't know what the rest of the mid-term financial plan is
going to be. We're kind of focusing, it seems to me, on '21, which is incredibly important, and I understand
that. But it's not in a vacuum. It's with the others. And we don't know what's going to be left for that. And
so that kind of makes me feel like whatever we decide is incomplete.
But nonetheless, we have to at least move forward with some ideas. I personally would prefer that we not
reduce service if at all possible. I think it's really, really reduced as it is. So that would be my preference
but I also have a preference, and it might be contradictory. But it's hard to imagine increasing our prices
with such decreased service. I just think that would be a very difficult thing for us to do with a straight face
without people being pretty angry.
I am concerned that there are some buses apparently that have four or three people typically on a bus.
And obviously that is not appropriate. And I would love it if we could look at alternatives. And I think we

were told by Reimagine that they would be willing to look at new ideas such as Lyft, such as vouchers, et
cetera, that could address very low performing routes.
Because I think we clearly have to deal with those routes that are working well and have transitdependent people on them. And in the short run, that's what I think we have to focus on. But we can't just
ditch service in terms of coverage, in my opinion. Because then we get into geographic equity also. And
to me, it does exist.
So I also don't like the idea of using reserves. But my lord, if this isn't a time that's an emergency, I don't
know what is. A question that I have is for Fast Tracks, the beginning fund balance is almost $180 million,
which looks like, that's quite a bit of money. And we have more in Fast Tracks reserves, way more than
the three months. Yet we don't have even three months in Base.
So I'm wondering if it doesn't make sense, when we are thinking of taking some reserves, that we do it
mostly from Fast Tracks if it's really over. I also, because I live in the north and know what it's like, don't
suggest at this point using the FISA money, only because there are talks going on about potential actual
federal funding. I know it is indeed speculative. But I don't think it's the time to take away our match.
Nonetheless, I would think that for me, I could see, in the interest of compromise, at least the first year of
the rubber tire money for '21 possibly being taken if other reserves are also used so that it's not
considered that the people of the north are the only ones sacrificing. OK, that's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten, are you on the line? OK, I'll come back.
Director Mihalik, are you on the line? OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes ma'am, I am on the line. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. All right. I have four factual questions and one rhetorical question. If we
could refer to page 13-- I'm sorry, page 9, page 9 of the presentation. Page 9 shows, as you will look at
each of those two columns, but most particularly, in July's leads forecast, it shows using the low forecast.
I have a distinct recollection that we authorized and instructed the use of the medium projection by leads.
And then there were two, or three, or perhaps even four board members who asked if we could also show
a number between the low and the medium. But the consensus, that is the largest number of board
members, reflected using the medium. Am I correct that despite that we're using the low in these
projections here?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. So two different places-- so if you look at the bar chart that
shows the-- where I said "see cash flows for detail." So this one that's up on your screen. Now this is
assuming the median forecast-- it says at the bottom July 2020-- medium scenario. And then the middle
of the road between the medium and the worst case is what you're seeing in orange.
DOUG TISDALE: I see that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, so that's true. So then if you go though to 2020 reserves, we're only talking
about 2020. And in 2020, I was directed by the board to use the low forecasts. So the medium forecast of
Leeds was only 2021 through 2026.
DOUG TISDALE: [INTERPOSING VOICES]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we presented that-- yeah?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I understand what you're saying. Yes, so first using the projected 2021 through
2026 for those years, you were using the medium and then reflecting a medium to low comparison. But

for the reserves, you are just using the low because that was the initial instruction that you received
previously when dealing with 2020. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. And even with using the low forecast in 2020, we're still seeing an
additional contribution to the reserves, $20.3 million for Base and $13.5 million for Fast Track.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, because those are both positive numbers, the spread between the May forecast
and the July forecast. All right, thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Second question, page 13-- the comparison was a 20-day period in April of 2019, April
to May, but it's 20 days-- and then a two and a third month spread for the Pan 20 numbers. I don't know-and I ask the question quite candidly and honestly-- would that impacted all the comparisons that you
drew since you're using 20 days to create the April model and then 17 days to create the 2020 model?
BRUCE ABEL: Director, I think that the best way I can answer is 2019 was a much more traditional year.
And so the volatility was much less. And the second, during 2020, the service planning development
group was attempting to get as long a period as they could once we went into COVID. But they had to cut
off at some point in order to have this analysis done for presentation and use.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. Yeah, a clarification that I wanted. Thank you. If you look at page 25, the $166
million dollar shortfall that you indicate, I take it that is using-- well, because it's 2021. And I'm wondering
was that shortfall calculated using the Leeds medium forecast, the mid to low number that some of the
directors asked you to project? Or is it based upon the low forecast from Leeds, which is what you use to
calculate the 2020 numbers?
BRUCE ABEL: This is based on the medium scenario, as reflected on the bar charts, slide number six. So
the $166 million corresponds to the medium scenario in blue, as directed by the law as indicated by the
board last week's finance committee-- or last week's workshop.
DOUG TISDALE: Perfect, thank you. That's great clarification. And then Mr. Abel, if I can, you made a
comment that was not in any of the slides, you made an observation at approximately 3:23, on this clock,
where you said the executive committee directed the general manager not to implement furloughs for
represented employees, but that the furloughs for non-represented or administrative employees were to
be implemented. Did I hear that correctly or was I mistaken?
BRUCE ABEL: Yes, you heard that correctly.
DOUG TISDALE: Well-BRUCE ABEL: The general manager indicated the beginning of furloughs for non-represented and
represented-- it is my understanding that the executive committee communicated to him to not pursue the
represented furloughs.
DOUG TISDALE: I was unaware of that. It's undoubtedly my ignorance and my failure in communication. I
was not aware that the executive committee had the power to direct the general manager on a
management question to proceed and ignore what the board had indicated in prior discussions.
But again, I am sure that I'll hear more about that later and I would be happy to have that discussion. The
issue that arises, given that a number of the members of the executive committee are the ones who have
said, but in any event, we must preserve FISA and cannot do anything about that-- so in other words, you
can't furlough represented employees, which would help to create some further balancing of this budget.
But you must proceed and keep FISA intact. And a cake-eating analogy is unavoidable.

The rhetorical question is when Director Cook indicated that she would want to push harder on
administrative overhead costs and get some further reductions there, which I certainly understand and
empathize with. The rhetorical question is, will that sentiment carry forward in our discussions with
general manager and COO candidates that will take place this week? It's a rhetorical question. Thank you
very much, Madam Chair. That's all that I have at this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I'd like to go back and call on Director Mihalik.
And after him, we'll call on Director Menten, who are both on the line. Director Mihalik? Director Mihalik?
I'll come back to you. I think you're having some technical difficulties.
Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Yes, and I have been on this call the whole time. I just was on my phone,
which you could not hear me. So to start with, first of all, I would like to thank Director Tisdale for bringing
up the issue of when a decision was made by the executive committee. That was certainly on my list of
questions, as I was not informed of that. I don't remember when we as a board had that discussion about
no furlough or no layoffs.
And jeez, I don't know to say with the current situation. Staff is asking for guidance and they're not really
getting a clear response. We absolutely have to do something. We know that. But if we don't take any of
those options, where are we going to go?
So I'll go back to, first of all, as to the list-- and I apologize as I get around my screen here. But going back
to the comments they made, I believe this last week as to the priorities of the five options, the tools, as
they're referred to in the PDF, one would be reduction in the overhead administrative costs, which I would
also include salaries, that direct wording, payroll, compensation.
Then two would be use of the FISA-- number one, future contributions, next, existing balance. And then
service reductions. And then finally as a last resort because it is our emergency fund, would be the use of
the reserves. And I bring up even though we think we are in a-- we are perhaps in an emergency right
now, we don't even know what other emergency might hit us.
You know, I think of the commercials that some dot gov is running right now. Where, yeah, we've got a
pandemic. But are you prepared if we actually have another emergency on top of that? And that is what I
worry about with the agency and why the use of our regular safety reserves would be the very last thing.
Why would we not use FISA if the other option is cutting the Flatiron Flyer, which is quite a successful
route, historically? That just doesn't make sense to me, personally.
So I would like some-- going back to the executive committee's discussion, because I think I called in on
the last executive committee meeting. And I don't know that I recall that being discussed there. So where
did that come from? And where and when was that discussed? And why wasn't the rest of the board
brought into that if that is true?
Looking at the map of the service, because that is what we're faced with one way or another. There's no
one piece of this pie where we can take care of this problem. You know, the Flex Rides are one of our
very poorest performing. And the subsidy level has been extremely high, so a lot of labor hours for a little
ridership.
But I am not clear on this picture that's included on page 17. And this is just probably me not reading in
great detail prior to today. But up at the top of this map on page 17, there are these gray-- a gray legend,
where it's showing the average daily boardings.

It is a little bit difficult to see on this map where that overlay is. So again, that's probably my error. But it's
not reading to me very clearly on that section, whereas I can easily see how the Flex Ride is performing.
The average daily boardings, with the dark blue to a dark red color, those I can see.
So I'm just saying to the staff, if there's something that can help me better on that, that'd be great. But the
Flex Rides just, you know, have been a hard one to deal with for the very low ridership.
And then we're going to have to look at some of these other routes. I would love it if we could get just that
map on a single document. So that I can really zoom and better understand the gray.
One thing I am concerned about is that, going back to the COVID plan, when we discussed this in the-you know, we had two-on-twos, probably in the January through March timeline-- and I won't call COVID,
but then it was the workforce issue, right, that then changed over to the COVID plan. It's that what we got
as a board, I think most of us, you know, we saw that spreadsheet. We saw the dollar savings that were
supposed to be represented by those service changes. Yeah, when we asked about those.
The answer is that we really haven't seen those savings. We've heard, well, it's because we have another
bus following another bus. Well, I don't know how many routes that really applies to and how that can
really amount to, what, $9, $10 million, maybe higher than that.
And then there was talk about well we're able to fit the training in. So we're taking advantage of that as
well. How long are these trainings that we've got bus drivers and trained operators going through? Well,
they were one-day each training, so it's not like several weeks.
So when we're asked to do service reductions and it's supposed to result in cost savings or it didn't
happen when we did this back in Q1, Q2 of this year, so can we know that that's what this is going to
create?
Back too, if we are reducing service between the net after COVID and all this, between 40% to 50%, yes,
why do we still have, as of this moment, still a job opening listed on our DD for bus drivers? I don't know
that the employees understand why, Because when I've been out talking to them, they're not quite clear
about that.
But then going back to I also got this Director from the executive committee saying don't furlough, don't
lay-off. If we're not producing the service, then we have to look at things like that. I think I've covered all
the points.
I am open to cuts. And I have laid out my priority one through five on that list that was given to us. But I
would also like to just bring forward right now, is there a plan from staff right now in the works to reduce
compensation, specifically to the SLT and to employees within a certain wage range?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McKillop?
BRUCE ABEL: [INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Or Mr. Abel. Go ahead, Bruce.
BRUCE ABEL: I think from the task force perspective, we are reviewing a variety of alternatives. I guess I
would also, in that arena, Director Menten, and I would also point to there-- we are not compensation
experts on the task force.
There is an RFP that has been developed by HR that was transmitted to procurement last week. It was
assigned to a procurement staffer late last week. I would assume that it will probably hit the streets
sometime in the next week or two to bring on a compensation and pay expert firm to conduct a review of
compensation and pay at the RTD.

So that would be the expert analysis of our pay structure. But the task force is looking at a variety of
options as well, perhaps more oriented to furloughs. As you may recall. Currently our furloughs equate to
about a three and a half-ish percent reduction in pay for those folks affected. But we are looking at a
variety of issues in that regard, Director Menten, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you for that response. I am looking at proposing a resolution that will
take quick action, at least at the SLT level. OK, that would be for compensation reduction. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Mihalik, you able to unmute?
KEN MIHALIK: I have-- can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. I had it on mute. Anyways, these are absolutely hard decisions. None of these are
desirable in the scenario that we're in. And so I think that the furlough for-- furlough and worse for
represented absolutely needs to be considered, along with the use of the FISA. I think Bob Broom had a
real good comment as far as going to take a combination of these things.
And then I would also just encourage the development of using those alternative services as quickly as
possible. Because it's just going to dovetail right into the Reimagine process. And it just seems prudent
now to push these to kind of -- to start that-- those types of things. So it's definitely a tough situation.
But I think we've got to examine all-- we've got to use all those tools. The combination of at least, starting
of course with the overhead. And I was surprised too that there was a prohibition on the represented.
That's what I've got. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Director Walker, are you on the line?
JEFF WALKER: Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thanks. I'll be quick what I am thinking about now is first-- and I'm sure this is
baseline because I'm sure staff does it every day, that that's been going on since I got on the board-looking for new partnerships, and new modes, new types of services. So that would be-- you know, that's
an ongoing task. And I started looking at looking at that.
Second, I would look at eliminating the Flex Ride areas that have only retained 1% to 20% from COVID-since the COVID was implemented.
Third, I would look at eliminating future contributions to FISA. And fourth, I would look at-- I would look at
using the FISA reserves. How we move people is secondary to our ability to move people. So if we can
sufficiently handle the demand in the northwest, southwest, southeast, wherever it is, as long as we can
do that-- it doesn't matter if it's a train, or a bus, or a van.
What's important is that we have some type of service out there to meet that demand. And if we have
millions of dollars sitting in a reserve and risking leaving people at the station and at a bus stop
somewhere while we have that reserve, that's untenable to me. So those are, in my order of preference,
what I would like to see staff do.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Can you hear me OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
TROY WHITMORE: Excuse me. Appreciated Director Mihalik's summary. I think that was a good capsule
of a very complex and daunting task, to use the term Mr. Abel.

I'll be brief. I think a lot of things have been discussed that I had thoughts of. I appreciate Director
Tisdale's questions, comments from Director Buzek and Cook and Lubow. I guess I am, like others, very
hopeful. It's hard to be hopeful right now, Director Lubow, as we've both talked about.
But the alternative services are going to be critical to have any sense of fairness and geographic services.
It's one thing to leave people at a station because they weren't there on time. It's another thing to not
even have that opportunity, not even to have a service.
And, you know, if you're in the district, you're paying the same taxes from north to south, to east to west.
And there has to be some semblance of service one way or the other. So yeah, the alternative programs
need to not just be talked about. They need to be explored.
I am a little bit like Director Menten. I hate to use the reserves. But I think this may be a time where a
partial use, perhaps what Director Broom mentioned, is warranted. But certainly not a huge majority.
Because we don't know what we're going to see in 2022 to 2023.
I'm not fond of raiding the FISA, at least the existing FISA. Maybe future-- maybe future, and I'll have to
analyze that and think through that for a few more days or weeks to come. I know we've got a long
agenda ahead of us this evening. So I think that's all I really need to express at this point, Madam Chair,
except thank you to staff for another good presentation. I know this is not easy. And I appreciate the
depth. And I'm sure there'll be more requests for more depth. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is Director Williams on line? OK, not hearing that. Thank you.
I will just say that I really kind of fall in the same category with Director Broom and Vice Chair Catlin. But I
really think we also need to be looking quite diligently, not just to alternative service providers but
collaborating with the municipalities and, I don't know, any other organizations that could help us with ride
services, particularly in outlying areas [AUDIO OUT].
This is a tough discussion we're having. But it's a discussion we need to have. So I will end on that. Is
there any other discussion before I go to other matters?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Look, for me, Chair, this is-- I hope my computer doesn't die. I've got to go find my
charger. You know, I don't think we had any sort of fearless discussion in the executive committee. I
believe I did bring it up that where we're talking about representing employees, that we've had workforce
issues for so long, that if we're talking about layoffs or furloughs, that it's something that needs to be, as I
like to say, socialized, and that I would hope it would come to the board.
And I don't know where it went from that. I think it went into the task force. I don't think there was ever-unless there's something [AUDIO OUT] any direction from the executive committee that they not happen.
I think it was more of a discussion that it needed to be discussed.
Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Yes? Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And Director Tisdale is absolutely right. The executive committee
does not have that power. And we didn't try to wield it. So I don't know where Mr. Abel got that
information. I don't appreciate it being brought erroneously into this committee meeting. We never made
that direction. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin. I don't recall that we made that-- or gave any
direction of that sort in executive committee meeting. And I might remind both Director Menten and
Tisdale that participated-- usually in the meetings. So I don't recall that happening. But I do remember

that staff advised us that we were a bit hamstrung with the collective bargaining agreement, and that
furloughs were difficult to do and that layoffs were not.
So somebody can correct me if I'm wrong. But I do not require that we give any such directive. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: YES, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam. I just suggest that perhaps there might be some further
dialogue offline between and among the general manager, the chief financial officer, and Mr. Abel, as our
consultant, on this issue, with the Chair and perhaps one or more other members of the executive
committee separately, of course, so it's not an illegal meeting, to provide some clarity to the board at the
next earliest available opportunity. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right any other matters to come before this special session?
OK, hearing none-JUDY LUBOW: I have something. I have something.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. And my cat, Lily. You know, I have heard also that there are times when
staff seems to think that there are board directives on things like with the budget. And I think it's an area
just rife with some communication problems.
And aligned with what Director Tisdale was saying, it might be extremely useful for staff and the board
management to get together and talk about really what the directives are. Because I think there's some
confusion. And it's not just this one particular instance of confusion as to what board directives are about
the budget. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
Madam Chair? Yes, go ahead, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yeah. My recollection on this issue was is that the collective bargaining agreement didn't
provide for furloughs. And then when you said OK well if we don't do furloughs, we can do layoffs. Well,
the problem there is the layoffs are by seniority. So you'd be laying off the people you just hired in the last
two or three months. And so nobody had an appetite for pursuing that because that was too tough a nut
to crack.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. We have had some really serious conversations, and a lot of them,
for sure. Anybody else?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: So given Director Lubow's comments about lack of clarity, I think it would be helpful to
have some sort of a summary of understanding from CFO and Heather McKillop, as well as Bruce Abel,
on what they heard and what they heard the consensus to be as far as-Madam Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: --going forward with-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hold on.
PEGGY CATLIN: --different scenarios. I just-- I think if there is a misunderstanding, that it would be nice
to get some of that out on the table right now.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Cook, let me go to a Director-- or Secretary Buzek
first, and then I'll come back to you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thanks a lot.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No, I didn't have anything. I was just nodding my agreement with Director Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I'd like to work with the CFO and present that for affirmation at the Monday-- at the
Tuesday meeting on the 11th, if that would be OK. I'll work with individual members and then with
Heather McKillop, with CFO McKillop, to bring that forward, if that's OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That sounds great. Thank you for offering. Anybody else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Well-- Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I am curious at this point-- just to get this processing as soon as possible, what did
Heather here as of today? I thought Director Catlin asked a great question for right now.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, do you want me to respond?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I took copious notes. I think we heard that there is definitely a concern about
taking money out of the FISA and reserves. However, I think there is acknowledgment that we probably
need to use some of the reserves in 2021. But we will probably have to reserve some of the reserves for
future years.
Also, I'm hearing that although there is a dislike for using the FISA, there is more positive comments
towards using the future contributions and not touching the existing contributions unless we absolutely
have to. I think there was consensus around trying to get as much as possible out of the administrative
function and trying to keep the service level at least at the 40%, and provide options in the future to be
able to add service back if funding materializes.
I think-- let me go through my notes to make sure I didn't miss anything else.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, if I might chime in independently of Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BRUCE ABEL: I agree-- I would agree with that assessment that while there is no, quote, consensus,
which would indicate everyone is in agreement, there seems to be a general thought on-- that yes, using
reserves is challenging, but this is perhaps the time to use reserves, some reserves, limited amount of
reserves.
Again, there seems to be more of a willingness to utilize future contributions to FISA as opposed to
digging into the existing FISA. Obviously, maximize overhead reductions. And so I think that both
Heather's notes and my notes are very, very close in terms of that seems to be what we've heard.
And then on the service side I think that we've heard that we continue to need to focus on alternative
services. There seems to be a general agreement in the short-term, to continue to serve those who have
been riding with us through COVID. And I'm sure that there'll be some more conversations about that this
evening in the Reimagine conversation. But that seems to be-- those are what I had in my notes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. [SIREN] I know that's loud. Ms. McKillop, anything else?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I apologize again. It's very busy outside the window today. No, I think that
would really be the summary that we are working towards as we move forward for future workshops.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you so much. Director Menten, does that answer your question?
NATALIE MENTEN: I think that was good to have that all condensed. Thank you, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Any other matters?
OK. Hearing none, I would like to call this study session adjourned at 4:25 PM. Thank you. And I'll see all
of you at the Board meeting at 5:30.

