Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, January 17, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 6:52 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present

Arrived
6:47 PM

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District C
Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present
Present

6:48 PM
6:47 PM
6:48 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Absent

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:50 PM
6:48 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:51 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:46 PM
6:48 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

6:48 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

6:47 PM
6:49 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

6:47 PM
6:48 PM

Director Folska was absent. Committee Chair Anderson and Director Deadwyler left the
meeting early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina
Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Nate Currey,
John Elias, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Russ Larson, Richard
Lobato, Doug McLeod, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Henry Stopplecamp, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington.

Public present:

Ron Bushman, Laura Clark, Crissy Ditmore, Spencer Dodge, Dr.
William Gross, Matt Heafner, Mike Hughes, Bill Patterson, John
Thompson, Ibrahima Toure, Joe Tripplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob
Wilson.

B. Recommended Actions

• Award of Access-a-Ride Service Contracts
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
enter into contracts with MV Transportation, Transdev, and Via Mobility
Services for the provision of Access-a-Ride service using dedicated vehicles.
These contracts are for three years, with two one-year options for a total of
5-years, for a 5-year cost of $175,341,294.00. In addition, RTD will
reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
$20,715,915.00 for the total 5-year term. The total 5-year not-to-exceed
amount for Access-a-Ride dedicated-vehicle service and fuel is
$196,057,209.00.
It is further recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to enter into contracts with MV Transportation and Transdev for
the provision of Access-a-Ride service using non-dedicated (contractor
provided) vehicles. These contracts are for three years, with two one-year
options for a total of 5-years, at a not-to-exceed 5-year cost of
$38,918,913.00. Fuel for the non-dedicated vehicle contracts is included in
the service contract price. These recommendations represent the most
responsive and responsible proposals received in response to Request for
Proposals (RFP) 16-DH-047 (dedicated vehicle) and 16-DH-046 (nondedicated vehicle) to provide Access-a-Ride Service. The contracts to
provide this service are scheduled to be effective April 1, 2017.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the January 24, 2017, Board
Meeting.

Director Tisdale seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
stated that staff has experienced challenges in the Access-aRide program for the past two years. He noted that the
Denver market has changed since the last Request for
Proposal (RFP) process and staff decided against options for
this year in order to improve the quality of RTD’s services. He
indicated that what the Board sees in front of them is an
action item where RFP’s were issued.
Director Solano stated that Access-a-Ride runs at a constant
loss, and cannot understand why the providers would want to
get into this type of business.
Director Lubow asked what the change in contract price was
from the old RFP to the new RFP.
Committee Chair Anderson said that staff could provide those
numbers offline.
Director Francone commented that, under the financial impact
section, it looks as though the internal evaluation determined
that RTD could provide this service at a better price.
Bruce Abel said staff’s assumptions were in relation to labor
cost per hour rather than the cost of services provided by RTD
internally, and yes, the contractor estimates were higher than
staff’s estimates due to the increase in contractor wages.
Director Deadwyler remarked that, as a user of Access-a-Ride,
she has been very dissatisfied with the service. She said there
are some challenges with how the system is run and RTD
cannot fix the current issues by sinking more money into it.
She added that the entire system needs to be evaluated to
determine how it can be improved.
Bruce Abel explained that strategically staff is attempting to
address several issues. He stated that, when a customer calls
in, schedules are developed and manifests are sent to the
service providers the night before the service is to take place.
Currently, eight to nine pick-ups are standard in the course of
the day, but driver call-offs require re-deployment of manifests
in order to transport everyone with reservations for that day.
Those re-designed manifests end up with trips that were not

intended to fit those additional people, creating longer or out
of the way routes. He remarked that staff is attempting to
address the driver call-offs with this new RFP. He said that
while the RFP will not solve all of the Access-a-Ride problems,
it should fix many of them.
Director Deadwyler indicated that there is something wrong
with the system that makes drivers call off and not go to
work.
Committee Chair Anderson recommended that Director
Deadwyler discuss all of her concerns with staff offline.
Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services, stated that as
Bruce Abel articulated, the call-offs are a direct byproduct of
fatigue. He commented that the goal of this procurement is to
get drivers to fill the gap.
Director Broom asked how the progress payments would be
paid.
Bruce Abel stated that the contractor provides RTD with an
hours provided invoice every month, which staff reviews,
approves, and then pays.
Director Broom inquired as to what recourse RTD has for nonperformance.
Bruce Abel stated that RTD can get liquidated damages or that
staff can cancel the contract if the provider is not in line with
RTD’s performance standards.
Director Williams commented that there are driver shortages
everywhere and asked if RTD has software that could adjust
the manifests automatically.
Bruce Abel said, in order to route match riders affected by a
driver call-off, dispatch must manually enter them into the
manifests.
Larry Buter added that the software is called ShowRec. He
said there is only so much that the computer can do and route
matching would still require manual entry.

Director Lubow remarked that, if even a Board member such
as Director Deadwyler is unhappy with this service, there are
larger issues that need to be addressed.
Director Solano indicated that pay equity is a large issue and
that is one of the main reasons that RTD cannot keep drivers.
Director Williams stated that RTD will not be gaining anything
by voting against the people that have the most experience
with this type of service. She remarked that this proposal is
reasonable considering all of the circumstances.
Director Tisdale seconded the observations by Director
Williams. He added that this action item addresses the issues
raised by Director Deadwyler and there are appropriate
measures in place to protect RTD should any of the providers
fail to perform in accordance with the service standards.
Committee Chair Anderson stated that she has received a lot
of phone calls and complaints about the Access-a-Ride
service. She hopes this new process allows staff to attract
and keep drivers to prevent driver fatigue and call-offs. She
commended staff for doing an excellent job and noted that
these contracts were not up for renewal but rather were an
intervention by staff to provide better Access-a-Ride service.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 10 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Sisk, Walker, Williams) 3 against (Deadwyler,
Lubow, Solano,) and 1 abstention (Archuleta).
Director Folska was absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 3 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk,
Walker, Williams
Barbara Deadwyler, Judy Lubow, Paul Solano
Ernest Archuleta
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• Access-a-Ride Travel Training Project
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to enter into a contract with Via Mobility Services for the provision of
Travel Training services. Performance under the contract is for a one (1)
year period and shall not exceed $134,040.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the January 24, 2017,
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel stated that travel training is a strategy which
teaches people with disabilities to use fixed route services. He
noted that Via Mobility has been working with RTD for years
to teach individuals how to use the fixed route services.
Director Williams said Via Mobility does an excellent job. She
added that their program works and the training is helpful and
very empowering for those who go through the program.
Director Francone asked if the average price of $1,400.00 per
participant was accurate, and if so, what RTD gets in return
for that cost.
Larry Buter commented that the cost does average out to
$1,400.00 per participant, but this particular training adds a
new component to the mix, which is fixed route service. He
noted that Access-a-Ride can pick someone up at home, take
them to a fixed route transfer point, then pick them up again
on the back end of their trip to their final destination. He
stated that staff will be working with some of the participants
of this program to design the travel training program for 2018.
He noted that this is not intended for every single Access-aRide passenger, but there are many people that would benefit
from this training.
Bruce Abel remarked that while the per participant cost is
$1,400.00, if they are eventually able to make multiple trips
with fixed route service, RTD would recoup those funds.

Director Francone stated that marketing is critical to
encourage people to participate in this program and added that
removing the fear factor out of transit is important.
Director Deadwyler indicated that the only time she has had
satisfactory service was with Via Mobility. She added that
this program should be viewed as a pilot program to see if it
will work before investing a lot of money.
Bruce Abel noted that this is only a one-year contract to
determine if there is a need for this type of program.
Chair Hoy asked how participant successes are measured.
Bruce Abel commented that Via Mobility tracks how many
trips are taken on fixed route services in comparison to trips
on Access-a-Ride.
Director Williams stated that the training program is not new.
She explained that, beyond measuring how successful it is, it
is beneficial to RTD’s image to show that the agency is
involved and offers travel training. She added that it is a good
thing for RTD in more ways than those mentioned tonight.
Director Anderson remarked that whomever RTD can help to
use fixed route services has more freedom than someone who
has to call in and order Access-a-Ride, which is a good thing.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker,
Williams) and 1 against (Solano). Director
Folska was absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Claudia Folska

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• May 2017 Service Changes
Bruce Abel stated that RTD has service changes three times a year. As part
of the process, staff comes to the Board with routes that will be going out
to the public for comment. After all of the public feedback comments are
received, staff will seek final approval from the Board.
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, said this service
change is relatively small as there are only a few changes that are service
reductions, such as route 40. Other changes relate to routes 8, 19, and the
B line schedule.
Director Solano stated that a newspaper article in Commerce City said that
route 62 is only going to be partially open and running.
Jessie Carter remarked that route 62 was part of the January service
change, but part of the street has not been conveyed to either Commerce
City or the City of Denver. Until the street is conveyed, RTD is operating on
a detour.
Director Sisk asked staff to add additional service from the McCaslin park-nride.
Director Menten asked for the meeting locations for the community outreach
meetings.
Jessie Carter indicated that the list is being finalized and updated due to the
Presidents’ Day holiday.
Director Francone asked that service planning coordinate with the Board
Office so that the Directors can know when all of the public outreach
meetings occur.
Director Solano inquired if staff is flexible as to where the outreach meetings
occur as he is hosting a meeting on January 28th at Adams City High
School. He asked if someone from service planning could attend that
meeting with him to answer any questions that group may have.

• Cost Share Agreements Under $250,000
Bruce Abel said as an update staff is bringing forth information about cost
share agreements under $250,000. Since 1992, RTD has contributed to
support the Littleton Shopping Cart, which was originated to serve portions
of certain routes previously served by RTD. He said this is a free service

available to the residents of Littleton and the estimated cost for 2017 is
$30,861. In January 2004, RTD discontinued Route 47 and, as an
alternative, RTD entered into an agreement with a local non-profit to provide
a new community-based service. Focus Points Resource Center (FPRC) has
long been an advocate and resource for communities in Denver and the
estimated costs for 2017 is $53,240. In 2010, Via Mobility, a non-profit
organization, applied for and received a Transportation Equity Act for the
21st Century New Freedom grant to coordinate transportation services
provided by Via Mobility and RTD in the city of Longmont. Currently, Via
Mobility and RTD are coordinating services between Via, Call-n-Ride, and
Access-a-Ride to determine which trips can be operated on Via and Call-nRide services. Local matches of the grant will be provided by Via Mobility,
the City of Longmont, and RTD. The estimated cost for the Longmont
Coordination of Services in 2017 is $12,000.

• 2016 Securement Area Issues Report
Bruce Abel explained that, as part of the settlement agreement with
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition (CCDC), staff has committed to provide
an annual report communicating the number of occurrences where RTD was
unable to accommodate individuals with mobility devices on fixed route
buses and RTD’s reason for not being able to accommodate them. The
majority of the occurrences in 2016 related to the fact that there were
already two mobility devices on board the bus, which is the maximum
number allowed.

• Lost Service Hours Update
Bruce Abel commented that staff has discussed the challenges on the
paratransit side already and added that the fixed route providers are
experiencing the same issues. He noted that staff is working towards
addressing the fixed route head count.
Director Lubow noted that RTD was successful with the sign-on bonus and
asked if that has lost its appeal.
Bruce Abel stated that staff routinely meets with human resources,
marketing, and other departments to brainstorm the best way to market
open positions. He noted that the holidays are challenging periods to bring
on new staff but welcomed any suggestions.
General Manager Genova added that staff works closely with the union
leadership as well. He explained that the driver shortage is not always about
wages. The bus operators have a challenging job, especially if they are
working split shifts. Staff continues to work with the union and others to
best address these issues.

• Pass Program Study Update
Michael Washington, Title VI Manager, stated that in September 2015 the
Board approved changes to the EcoPass programs with a commitment to:
 Convene an RTD and Stakeholder Pass Program working group
 Define Goals for pass programs
 Revisit pricing for pass programs
The Pass Program Working Group’s objectives were to:
 Revisit and refine goals for each pass program
 Refine pricing and administration of each pass program
 Recommend pass program policy revisions
 Recommend criteria for RTD to use in evaluating future proposals
for new pass programs
Guiding Principles are:
 Brand loyalty
 Convenience
 Cost-effectiveness
 Equitable access
 Increased ridership
 Meet strategic budget plan targets
 Revenue certainty
 Simplifying rider-operator interactions
Recent Activities include:
 Hiring of a facilitator – Hughes Collaboration
 Interviewing of key internal staff members
 In the process of procuring technical consultant support services
 The selection of 26 working group members
Mike Hughes, President of Hughes Collaboration, stated that inclusion and
representation were at the forefront of the working group selection.
Inclusion incorporated all perspectives and all key stakeholders from pass
users, riders who do not use passes, business interests and advocacy
groups. Representation ensured that each seat at the table was assigned to
someone who had credibility with the group he or she seeks to represent.
The working group will meet each month under the following guidelines:
 Meetings will be open to the public and advertised on the RTD
Board calendar
 Public comment will occur at the beginning of each meeting
 Each meeting will be convened in different locations throughout
the district
 Consensus must be met on all recommendations made to staff

Director Menten asked staff to confirm that this working pass group will
only focus on the Eco and Neighborhood Eco Passes (NECO), and not try to
evaluate a low-income fare study.
Michael Washington commented that staff will be examining all pass
programs to determine how they integrate with each other.
General Manager Genova stated, that when RTD went through the fare
structure analysis in 2014, the Board asked staff to put together a working
group to examine all of the pass programs. He added that RTD gets a lot of
requests from cities, school districts, counties, and communities for a
specific type of local pass, which is challenging for staff to examine. Based
on the feedback that staff has received, they are broadening the scope of
the working group. He remarked that staff wants the working group to
enter the process with an open mind, and unbiased, to develop a good
product.
Director Menten indicated that she did not see the taxpayers represented in
this group. She said someone from the Colorado Union of Taxpayers, for
example, would be a good addition.
Director Williams remarked that she would like to see a representative from
the Veterans’ groups added to the working group.
Director Francone stated that a representative from higher education is
absent from this working group and would like to see them included as well.
Committee Chair Anderson suggested that a representative from the
Jefferson County Economic Development Association be added to the
working group. She stated that they are attracting corporations that may
use Eco Passes, and it would be good to get their feedback as to how Eco
Passes could be used in Jefferson County.
Mike Hughes commented that the list does not display how the
conversations lead him to the people that ended up making the list.
General Manager Genova added that the members of the working group
made a monthly commitment to meet for four hours, and a lot of people that
Mr. Hughes contacted were unable to commit to the time needed to
participate.
Mike Hughes added that one reason Children’s Hospital is on the list is
because they were participants in the EcoPass program and decided to drop
out. Now their staff is pushing them to get back into the program.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone noted that she had the opportunity to go on KLZ-560 AM Radio
with John Rush and Dan Meurer to discuss the University of Colorado A Line and
was able to get them to commit to a monthly segment to discuss transit. She said
that it will be a good opportunity for this agency to have a forum to push
information out to a more conservative audience and allow communications to get
the correct information to the public since there is a lot of miscommunication out
there. Also, as a result of the radio show, one of their producers has old RTD
passes from 1980 who would be happy to turn them over to the agency for
historical purposes.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 14, 2017
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Chair Hoy asked for a motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose of
discussing CRS 24-6-402(4)(d): Specialized details of Security Arrangements
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move
into Executive Session for the purposes
of discussing CRS 24-6-402(4)(d):
Specialized details of Security
Arrangements
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

The Board adjourned into Executive Session at 8:35 p.m. after a verbal
acclamation. Chair Hoy asked everyone to clear the room and noted that the
Operations and Customer Service Committee would resume with no action items
following the Executive Session.

G. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 9:25 p.m. directly from the Executive Session.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

