Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 1 of 9
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 12, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12,
2009 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
2nd Vice-Chair Busck; Secretary Daly; Treasurer Tayer;
via phone: Directors McMullen, Tobiassen

Executive Committee
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Vice-Chair Martinez

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella; Bruce Abel, Paula Perdue

Call to Order:

2nd Vice Chair Busck called the meeting to order at
12:07 p.m.

2nd Vice Chair Busck entertained the motion on the following three items:

I.

Recommended Action
a. Resolution Regarding the Regional Transportation District Paying
for Transit Related Group Events
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move this
item forward for the full Board approval on
February 17, 2009.
Director Daly seconded the motion.
Cal Marsella raised the question if other
government agencies have a similar policy.
Bruce Daly will check on the policy used by the
legislature. Director Busck indicated that the
City of Thornton has such a policy. Paula
Perdue shared that staff had done a quick
benchmark with 8 other agencies, none of which
have a policy to pay for spouse’s meals.
Director Busck indicated that reasonable
prudence must be used in determining which
events to attend and that politically based
events should be avoided.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 2 of 9
Vote on the
Motion:
The motion PASSED 3 in favor and 0 against.
b. Resolution Honoring Contributions by DBE/SBE Staff Office as
Model for Successful Program
Motion:
Director Tayer made the motion to move this
item forward for the full Board approval on
February 17, 2009.
Director Daly seconded the motion.
All the Board members were in agreement so
there was no discussion.
Vote on
The Motion: The Motion PASSED 3 in favor and 0 against.
c. City of Denver Request to rename Convention Center/Performance
Arts Light Rail Station
Motion:
Director Tayer made the motion to move this
item forward for the full Board approval on
February 17, 2009.

Discussion:

Director Daly seconded the motion.
Bruce Abel introduced this item and shared the
marketing group had been approached to change
the name of the convention center station as
part of a rebranding effort to change the 14 th
Street to the theatre district.
The requested
rename is Theatre District/Convention Center.
The City will pay for the new signs,
announcements and associated costs to make
this change.
Cal Marsella expressed some reservation in
moving ahead on this in light of the recent
discussion on naming stations as a potential
revenue source. He did not want to set a
precedent that could inhibit our ability to move
into more revenue generating options. Director
Tayer and Daly shared the concerns and felt it
needed to be communicated to the City that this
is a limited commitment which could be revisited
in light of the review of the policies RTD
establish for naming of station rights.
Director Busck expressed that he did not think
this was setting a precedent. The type of

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 3 of 9
change being proposed by the city is more of a
destination name change to provide greater
clarification as opposed to any branding or
business name related change.
The Committee was amicable to moving ahead
with this recommendation.
Vote on
The Motion:

II.

The motion PASSED three in favor and 0
opposed.

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella provided a brief overview of the items on the agenda.
There were some clarifying comments and questions but no serious
concerns.
Motion:
Director Tayer made the motion to move the full
Board agenda ahead for the Board approval on
February 17, 2009.
Vote on
The Motion: The Motion PASSED 3 in favor and 0 against.



Unanimous Consent



RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2009, Honoring Contributions
by DBE/SBE Staff Office as Model for Successful Program



RTD Annexations of Land Recently Annexed By Local
Municipalities and Revised RTD Boundary Map and Description
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors approve the revised boundary map of
the District and authorize the Board Secretary to certify the
boundary map and description and that lands newly annexed to
RTD pursuant to the provisions of CRS 32-9-106 be designated as
part of Director Districts F, G, H, I, and K, as appropriate.



Construction Contract Award US-36 & 116th Ave. Bus Transit
Facility/Broomfield Events Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or
designee, to execute all documents necessary to award a
construction contract to Jalisco International, Inc. in the amount
of $8,380,637.45 for the US-36 & 116th Ave. Bus Transit Facility
in Broomfield at the Broomfield Events Center. Funding for this
contract is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the
FasTracks Program.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 4 of 9


Intergovernmental Agreement with the Downtown Denver
Business Improvement District (DDBID) for the 16 th Street Mall
Paver Rehabilitation Plan – Phase I
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
negotiate and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with
the Downtown Denver Business Improvement District (DDBID) up
to and not-to-exceed $100,000 for the 16 th Street Mall Paver
Rehabilitation Program – Phase I. Funding for this project is
included in the 2009 Adopted Budget.



Permanent Easement and License for Construction to Denargo
Market, L. P. for Drainage Near District Shops at Approximately
3100 31st Street, Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
execute all documents necessary to convey a permanent
easement containing 4,826 square feet (0.110 acres) and a
license for construction containing 12,048 square feet (0.276
acres) to Denargo Market, L. P. for the construction, operation
and maintenance of a storm water line and storm water outfall to
be placed upon RTD property bordering the South Platte River and
located at approximately 3100 31 st Street, Denver, Colorado.



Recommendation for Approval of the Fourth Year (2009) Contract
Award with AECOM Consult for FasTracks Travel Modeling,
Transit Operations, and Rail Simulation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
approve the fourth year contract award to AECOM Consult for
FasTracks travel modeling, transit operations analysis, and rail
simulation modeling. The contract is for one year with two oneyear renewable options at RTD’s sole discretion. The contract will
be for the not-to-exceed amount of $600,000, and will be
awarded on a work order basis. Partial funding for the contract is
contained in the 2009 RTD expense budget the FasTracks and
capital budgets.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize a
transfer of $85,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to
the FasTracks modeling expense budget to provide the remaining
funding for this contract in 2009



Recommendation for Contract Award to LS Gallegos for the
FasTracks Independent Cost Assessment Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 5 of 9
award a contract to LS Gallegos to perform an Independent
Cost Assessment for the FasTracks program. The contract
award will not exceed $360,000. Funding of $300,000 is
included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks
program.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize
a transfer of $60,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve
to fully fund the cost of this contract.
This action will
accelerate future year funding for project administrative
expenditures to cover the full cost of the Independent Cost
Assessment.


Recommendation for Loan from RTD to Denver Union Station
Project Authority
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
RTD enter into an agreement to loan the Denver Union Station
Project Authority (DUSPA) $1.5 million payable in three monthly
installments commencing on March 1, 2009 for the purposes of
covering DUSPA operating expenses until such time as DUSPA
has funds to cover project costs and its own operating expenses.



Budget Transfer for Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
Environmental Assessment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors approve a budget transfer in the amount of
$700,000 from the FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) budget for the
purpose of completing the Environmental Assessment (EA). The
requested transfer covers additional alternatives analysis on
reconsidered sites, public involvement, and conceptual design,
investigation, environmental analysis, and documentation of the
recommended preferred site.



Recommendation for Grant of Easement and Utility Construction
Agreement with Central Platte Valley Metro District at 18th Street
and the Consolidated Main Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
RTD grant an easement to the Central Platte Valley (CPV) Metro
District for construction of a pedestrian bridge at 18 th Street and
the Consolidated Main Line (CML) in Denver, and contract with
the CPV Metro District to perform utility relocation that will be
required for Denver Union Station (DUS) in an amount not to
exceed $150,000.



IT Contingency Work Order Contract
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 6 of 9
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to award CIBER Inc. an increase in the
third-year current contract for IT Technical and Management
Support Services (15DK008). This is an increase in the contract
limit with a not-to-exceed addition of $250,000 to support the
automation of FasTracks and RTD invoice payments using our
Enterprise business systems.
This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to CIBER Inc.
through the competitive bid process to support the Transit
Information Exchange System (TIES) and other technology
initiatives, such as Enterprise Content Management. CIBER was
one of three firms selected out of approximately fifteen in an
open-competition in 2006 and provides a wide variety of
technology professional resources for project specific-delivery.
The work order contract has a specified 15% SBE/DBE
participation. CIBER has met this goal using sub-contractors
American Automation, RTL Networks, and Allegory.


First Amendment to Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement – RTD
Commercial Paper Notes, Series 2001
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board approve the attached First Amendment (the
“Amendment”) to Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement (the
“Agreement”) between U.S. Bank Trust National Association (the
“Issuing and Paying Agent”) and the Regional Transportation
District.



2009 Fiscal Policy Statement Revision
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors update and modify the Fiscal Policy
Statements, Budget Policies – Item 11, regarding the District’s
requirement to prepare a balanced budget.



U.S. Leveraged Lease Modifications and Funds Transfer Request
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the General Manager be authorized to enter into revisions to the
Participation Agreements and to transfer $591,000 from the
General Counsel’s Workers Compensation budget to the
Administration Debt Management budget to fund a 2008 accrual
related to the revision of the 1997-A, (dated July 1, 1997) and
1997-B (dated December 12, 1997) U.S. Leveraged Lease
agreements between the Regional Transportation District (Lessee)
and EntreCap Financial LLC (Lessor) required as a result of
downgrades in the credit ratings of Ambac and AIG. The total
2008 accrual based on current estimates for this obligation will be
$691,000. It is further recommended that the General Manager

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 7 of 9
and the Manager of Debt and Investments be authorized to
execute such documents, transfers and security agreements as
may be necessary to effectuate the revisions to these transactions
which are necessary to avoid an Event of Default as defined in
transaction documents.
It is further recommended that RTD be authorized to pay EntreCap
Financial LLC (Lessor) fees and legal expenses related to the lease
revisions in an amount not to exceed $500,000, RTD consulting
fees with Matrix International not to exceed $100,000 and related
RTD legal fees with the firm of Pepper Hamilton in an amount not
to exceed $200,000.


Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe
It is recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents that may be necessary to extend the contract for sale
and development by and between the Regional Transportation
District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South Santa Fe through
June 30, 2009.



Award of “Group 20” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee, to enter into a contract for the provision
of “Group 20” contracted fixed-route transit services with First
Transit, Inc. This contract is for three years for an amount not to
exceed $62,271,383 with two (2) one-year options in the amount
of $22,350,156 (option year 1) and $23,135,466 (option year 2),
for a total five year amount not to exceed $107,757,005. In
addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in
an amount estimated to be approximately $15,453,432 for the
initial three year contract term and $26,531,908 for the five year
period.
This results in a contract amount not to exceed
$77,724,815 for the initial three year contract period and
$134,288,913 for the five year period. This proposal represents
the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response
to Request for Proposals (RFP) 18-DH-020 to provide “Group 20”
Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this
service is scheduled to be effective with implementation of Group
20 service effective August 23, 2009.



Cost Sharing Agreements- FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 8 of 9
the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for
the provision of FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for
Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2009 and for amounts not to
exceed $316,050 for Boulder County, $130,053 for Adams
County and $96,379 for Jefferson County.


Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP
circulator bus service in the commercial areas of the City of
Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent
business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year
2009 and is for an amount not to exceed $1,339,351.



Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Englewood/Art shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood
to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the Art
shuttle circulator bus service in the City of Englewood. This
agreement is for calendar year 2009 and is for an amount not to
exceed $297,939.



Colfax Transit Enhancement Project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into Agreements with the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) and the City and County of Denver (CCD)
to implement the Colfax Transit Enhancement Project and to
transfer $3,562,200 from the Transit Development Reserve fund
to implement this project pending reimbursement to RTD from the
CDOT SB-1 grant program.



Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of
Governments (DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion
of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver
metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 12, 2009 at 12:00
p.m.
Page 9 of 9
shall be in an amount not to exceed $565,000.


Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan
Planning Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the
NFR VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2009 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $450,000.



Recommended Action



RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2009, Regarding the Regional
Transportation District Paying for Transit Related Group Events



City of Denver Request to rename Convention Center/Performance
Arts Light Rail Station



Approval of May 3, 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the May 3, 2009
Service Change package as revised and summarized on
Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$6,806,860, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.



III.

RESOLUTION NO. ____, SERIES OF 2009, Service Reductions in
2009

Metro Mayors’ Task Force Update
2nd Vice-Chair Busck shared that the report given at the F&A
committee meeting on Tuesday night was complete and things were
moving along. No new information to add. The Mayors understand
that a tax increase is inevitable; however, they want to know every
stone has been turned.

IV.

Other Matter
Bruce Daly apologized for what he perceived was cutting short some
of the discussion on amendments at the Operations Committee
meeting. 2nd Vice-Chair Busck assured him there was no problem
with what he had done.

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 1:10 p.m.

