Oct 22 2019
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: --Financial Administration and Audit Committee. It is now just after 5:30 and
I'll call this meeting to order.
[GAVEL BANGS]
Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are digitally and audio
recorded, and video and audio recorded, and will be captured and made available to the public at
a later date on the Board's website.
At RTD, safety is our core value. I'd like to begin this meeting with a brief safety item. At RTD,
so if we have a medical emergency and 9-1-1 needs to be called, I will ask our RTD General
Counsel to make that call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are asked to assist. If
needed, an AED is in a glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly exit out
the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the security
desk, and exit through the front door, the one you most likely came in. Police and security officers
will be there to direct you to a safe meet-up area. And anyone needing special assistance will be
assisted by RTD staff, as necessary.
This evening we have seven recommended actions and nearly just as many updates. The first one
this evening is the adoption of the 2020-2025 Mid-Term Financial Plan. And it reads as such. It is
recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
INTERPOSING VOICES: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: that the RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2020 through 2025 Mid-Term
Financial Plan. This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals. Core
goal number three of strong financial management and task goal number one of fiscal
sustainability. Is there a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Folska and Williams. Heather and Jannette, would you
care to elaborate?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Heather McKillop. I'm going to ask
Jannette Scarpino to just give you a brief overview of the Mid-Term Financial Plan. And then we'll
be glad to open it up to questions.

JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. This is the six-year plan that integrates both the Base system
and FasTracks. We have been discussing development and assumptions in this plan in these
committee meetings since April of this year. We have been working on various drafts until we
arrived at a balanced plan. And we have shared the detail with you along the way.
This mid-term financial plan forms the basis of our 2020 annual budget. What you're seeing tonight
is identical to what we presented last month. You will recall that the plan, or the presentation last
month, the Board action, if you will, was tabled for further discussion.
I just want to say a couple of things as regards revenue. The fare revenue that is being presented
in the plan is from the fare recommendation of last year that was approved by the Board. Also, I
want to remind you that this plan uses the-- excuse me-- sales and use tax forecast of March from
the CU Leeds School. The plan is balanced for both Base and FasTracks through 2025. We're
asking for approval this evening because we use this plan, as I mentioned, as a baseline for our
2020 budget.
With that, we will take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: I'll give it just-- yeah. OK, Director Cook, you have a question.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Actually we'll need to offer an amendment. I don't know if
Director Guissinger or I would. But just wanted to reserve for that or just make sure that we're not
letting that go before we make the vote on the final motion.
KEN MIHALIK: This would be the time to make that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So this is something that's been circulated to different-- all the Board
members. And what we're proposing to do is to strike the second sentence on packet page five,
under Revenue Estimates, and strike the first sentence that reads "fare revenue of $124.4 million,"
actually, so sorry, to delete the first sentence and then to-- well, now this doesn't look exactly right.
But anyway, the way it should read is, "the mid-term financial plan assumes additional revenue
from increasing fares in 2022 and 2025. This revenue could come from other revenue sources that
will be explored before the Board considers a fare increase or cost savings that would reduce the
need for a fare increase."
So in other words, replacing that first paragraph, which reads, "fare revenue of $124.4 million in
2020 is based on the recommended fare change proposal presented by staff in September, 2018
and adopted by the Board." And then this part is what would be struck and replaced, "the fare
revenue through the six-year period is sourced from assumptions in the fare change proposal and
a fare rate increase in 2022 and 2025."
We're saying essentially we're going to assume the same revenue numbers but that we aren't
assuming automatically that they'll be done through fare increases. And in fact, we're going to
explicitly explore other measures that include both cost savings and additional or alternative
measures to increase revenues before we do that.

KEN MIHALIK: [INAUDIBLE]
SHELLEY COOK: It is. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll second.
SHELLEY COOK: Somewhere in there. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. And this is-- are there comments, Director Buzek? Yours is on the
amendment?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. I want to make sure we've got a substitute motion now. Is that correct?
SHELLEY COOK: No, it's an amendment to the main motion.
VINCE BUZEK: So it's not a new motion. But because it was seconded, I thought we had a
substitute motion. So it's an amendment to the main motion. OK. That's what I want. Are we taking
comments on this or not?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I am in favor of the amendment in that it's better language. As far as
automatic fare increases go as a budget policy, I think it's untenable. So this language at least gives
us some fallback to consider other sources. But for me, automatic fare increases are not
appropriate. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I want to second what Director Buzek said about automatic increases
are not something that I am comfortable with and therefore like this language a lot better, giving
us the chance, and staff the chance to look at alternative sources of funding.
There's a question that I had that in the motion that was given to us before, there was something at
the bottom that talked about, of course, all of these things must be looked at in relation to other
issues. But it left out that it needs to be looked at also in relation to the unfunded corridors. And I
don't know where that would be in terms of this, what you're asking for. So I don't see that
language. But could you talk to that?
SHELLEY COOK: We have been looking at, as a subset of total measures we might consider or
ask the staff to explore, some that come from the unexplored corridors report. But since then,
several on the Board have added additional measures. Some of those may lend themselves to the
kinds of capital needs that you'd see in terms of moving forward. But other ones might just as well
be additions to revenue that could be sought for ongoing operational costs. So I don't know,
Heather McKillop, if you have any thoughts about that. But I think we do need to recognize that.
I don't know if it needs to be in the financial, mid-term financial plan.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. I think what we presented at the last meeting- not this meeting, but the FasTracks and Planning meeting-- was the matrix, the unfunded corridor
matrix. And there was some discussion-- I apologize, I wasn't here-- but discussion around looking
at that and having staff explore those items and getting additional feedback from the Board on that.
Some of those things we could add to that unfunded matrix and have that discussion as part of that
versus the discussion in the mid-term financial plan, since had this particular language we kind of
need to get moving-- whatever we do, we kind of need to get moving with the mid-term financial
plan this evening. But I think that's where we had that discussion is that there could be a variety of
things, in addition to what we identified in the unfunded corridor, that we might want to
investigate, whether it be for capital purposes or just ongoing operating and maintenance money.
SHELLEY COOK: And maybe in the report that you come back to us after we have identified
those, you could indicate if it's better suited for one purpose or the other, or both, or something
like that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we could do that.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'll be supporting the motion also. I know from my experience here is
that we always look for other ways, other sources of funding. I remember one time when I first
was on the Board, there was a five-year period where there wasn't an automatic increase or, I
should say, a fare change. So, excuse me, so even though I think that alternatives are looked at
anyway, I think it's important to make that statement. Because $3.00, even though I don't think
we're the most expensive agency in the country, depending on how the pie is cut, I still think it's
important to recognize that we are getting kind of pricey. Because not everybody who rides our
system has to come downtown and deal with paid for parking. Some of them, some of our
passengers ride to areas where there is free parking, because either they don't have a car or for
other conveniences. But I think it's important to make that statement.
And also, I'll say again, as long as I've been on this Board, every time we've had a fare change, a
fare increase, there's been a commensurate fare decrease for somebody. So I want to make sure
that that's known and I'm on the record stating that, that we've also decreased the fares for a whole
lot of people. So it's not just take, take, take. We also, thankfully, we're also able to provide some
relief for folks who need it the most. That's it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I would assume that the previous Board that approved this
original language had reasons for doing that. It would seem to me like from a practical standpoint,
it's really an exhaustive effort to change fares. And so you don't want to do that on an annual basis,
you probably want to do it maybe on a three-year cycle because there's so much effort that has to

go into it. And so this is kind of a placeholder to remind us, I guess, that it's time to take a look at
our fares.
I've been around cities, for example, where they didn't raise water rates. And that went on six or
seven years. And all of a sudden, well, we've got to raise them 25% now. And of course, that was
a very unpopular way of doing it, rather than raising them as time went on to cover inflationary
costs.
So I'll support this, but I think we're kind of deluding ourselves into thinking that there's some
magic revenue sources out there of significant amounts that's going to cover inflation. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Broom. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I too will support the amendment. And
I recognize that Director Broom makes some excellent points. And I think it really is just a question
of being able to say publicly, proudly, before we increase fares we explore every other alternative.
And I think it does not hurt to articulate that. It does not take away our power, should the necessity
arise, to increase fares. But also, as Director Walker pointed out, we end up reducing fares,
decreasing fares, to a great extent, when we did this last fare increase.
I do have a friendly amendment that I would like to suggest. If you look at the printout, the next
to last line reads, "that will be explored before the Board considers a fare increase or", I would
suggest we insert the word from, so it reads, "or from cost savings that would reduce the need for
a fare increase." I think it just reads better that way. I'll offer it. And our parliamentarian will
probably correct me on this, but I'll offer it as I would call a friendly amendment, to see if the
movant and the second would agree to it. I think we could avoid the necessity of debate on that
simple amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: Certainly, yes. I accept that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I agree.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So if we could just note that the amendment as proposed is amended
by the insertion of the word from before the phrase cost savings in the next to last line. Thank you,
Mr. Chairman. That's all that I had.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Was there any question about that typographical change or-LYNN GUISSINGER: No, we're fine.
KEN MIHALIK: We're good? OK. Oh, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I have a question for clarification from staff, if
I may. I'm not able to read the amendment AND so I can't look at it very carefully in hand and
compare it with the current policies. So if someone from staff can clarify for me the difference
between what is already in place and how this improves our process.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So right now what's in process is what's in
the fiscal policy that says that staff will assume that we should program a fare increase to adjust
for inflation every three years. The amendment reads that we can make that assumption but before
we actually move forward with it, we have to explore other options, either from cost savings or
from other revenue sources.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So if I'm clear from what I just heard you say that you can still consider in
your planning process for the forward looking financial plans that you will always be able to use
if you had a fare increase every three years, this is what it would look like. Is that right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is my assumption in reading the language, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And Director Cook and Director Guissinger, if there is something-- Chair,
I don't know how to ask this question-- but I would want to know if that is their impression as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, I think-- I think that stated it perfectly. We just wanted to say that
we've passed around the various topics. Some of them were in the unfunded corridors report and
some others that various Board members have added of specific items to be looked at. But the idea
is just that we will look at all of those things before we do an automatic fare increase.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So back to Ms. McKillop, if I may. So I know there is a long list and
it could go on and on. It's great brainstorming. But it seems to me that it takes a pretty deep
knowledge and understanding of some areas that we may not currently have the talent to do that
with. Maybe we'd have to hire some consultants. I mean, I think this is all great. I've been talking
about finding other streams of revenue since the day I got here. And now I'm at the end of my
seventh year. And it seems to me that until we have tried and true evidence that those other revenue
sources are solid and working and reliable and that we can count on them, it just-- it doesn't-- it
seems a little fuzzy for me right now. And I would hope that our staff could look at those other
revenue angles anyway, among many more that could possibly come up, and in particular to finish
the unfunded corridors.
I think that what Director Lubow mentioned of having that language in the unfunded corridors
added in there would be really meaningful to everybody, in particular the folks up North. So I
guess I'm going to say I can't support this. I think what we have already is something that the staff
can work with, that they can hang their hat on and build from. And I think staff is always looking
for other revenue streams. And when we have the ability, maybe staff can hire consultants that
work on a contingency basis and they get 30% of all the revenue-- or I don't know what constraints
are around that. But I would like to see three to five years of real revenue from all or any of those
sources before I could say, yeah, we're not going to change the fares and we'll-- I mean, frankly, I
think it'd be great if it could be free, just like the Mall shuttle. But who's going to pay for that? So
I'm going to stick with the original language. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'm in support of the amendment because I think a
number of us have talked about these inherent assumptions of a fare increase and hearing from our

constituents that they're very concerned about that. For the record, I just think it's important to put
it in the mid-year financial plan. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. We will move to vote on the-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, could I just add one thing, real quick? I just want to clarify,
too, that I keep hearing the word automatic fare increase. And remember, the Board has to vote on
anything. So you vote on the budget. You vote on the mid-term. You vote on the long term. So I
just want to make clear that staff does not have the authority to do automatic fare increase. It
always comes to the Board.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that distinction. Yes. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. So Director Cook, I know you sent this around to the entire
Board. And one of the changes that I was hoping that we'd make in this language-- and this may
be something different, so feel free to correct me if I'm wrong-- was to change "is equitable" to
"achieve social equity?" I mean, I hadn't seen that change within this document.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Where would that be?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Let's see here.
SHELLEY COOK: I believe you're talking about the revenue fiscal policies that are to follow, if
I'm not mistaken.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is it?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to be sure.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We will move to vote on the motion to amend made first by Director Cook
and seconded by Director Guissinger.
And the motion passes 13 to 1. Director Folska being the one no vote. And so we will go back to
the main motion. If there's any discussion on that, I don't think we-- Yes. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I just wanted to talk about Exhibit, I guess it's 2 and
3, were you show a whole bunch of IT contracts. And it just looks like there's an awful lot of IT
contracts that amount to quite a bit of money. And it seems to me that since we're concerned about
money nowadays, we're very concerned about money and making sure that we have enough for
our needs, that I thought it would be good to know if a third party or somebody could take a look

at all of these contracts and let us know that they're the most appropriate use of our money. I myself
am not knowledgeable about that. But it just seems that it's a big part of our contractual budget.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: My response. So this is Heather McKillop. So just to let you know that
Director Lubow had sent me a request about this. So a majority of the, there's several large IT
projects in there, the biggest being the Oracle transition from the current Oracle system to a new
software as a service. We are in year two of that three-year project. We did brief the Board on that
multiple years ago and had a discussion about going in that direction. It's significantly less
expensive than when we first implemented Oracle. We're at about $10 million cost versus back
then it was about $25 million when we went there originally.
So that is a very large cost spread over the three years in here. It would be very difficult to suspend
that project since we've already signed contracts and have it under development right now. We did
consider that. Trust me, I had that conversation with IT. So that would be very difficult to suspend
at this time because we are under contract. So we would suffer some pretty large penalties if we
did not move forward with those licensing agreements.
Now, they're for a year at a time, so we wouldn't have to renew. But then we have no new system
and we have no old system. So that would be problematic. We'd have no way to do all of our
financials, as well as HR functions and contracting functions.
The other one that's in there, there are some related to moving our service planning to the new
vendor, M.A.I.O.R. That was approved by the Board several years ago, and we did, this is a multiyear contract. So that was previously approved by the Board. And the other one that's in there is
the account-based ticketing system. And we've been briefing you on that, moving from a currently
card-based system, where all the information resides on the card, to an account-based system.
Those are the three largest ones in that. The one for the account-based ticketing system, half of
that cost for the validators is provided by a federal grant. So if we were to suspend that project we
would have to give the money back to DRCOG. So that money wouldn't necessarily come back to
us.
But I'd be glad to take any other questions. Or if anybody has any concerns on any individual
projects, we can have that conversation. We do outsource most of our project work, because we
have chosen not to hire that expertise in-house. The industry is changing so rapidly that we have
gotten rid of in-house coders, so to speak, that used to code all of your systems. We now outsource
that and do most of those, and we're moving towards software as a service, which means we pay
for it on an annual basis on a licensing basis.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just wanted to say not in regard to any particular contract, I just
added up page 14 and 15 of Exhibit 2. There were $4.6 million in four contracts, IT contracts. And
then page 26, there were 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 contracts listed for $22 million. And I just think it's an

awful lot of money. And it might be nice to have another pair of eyes take a look at spending it.
Just a suggestion Thank you. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I wanted to just recap what we were talking about moving forward on as far
as the specific item of looking at additional revenue sources or cost savings. So as I understand it,
we touched on this briefly when we were talking about the amendment, but just to verify. We've
circulated some, but I believe what the plan that the staff is planning to move forward with is to
go back to the unfinished corridors matrix that was circulated again a couple of weeks ago and add
to that some of the items that we have since submitted that include not just alternative or sort of
creative measures to look at and to report back to us, but also some that include some cost saving
measure potential, excuse me, potentially. So is that correct, Mr. General Manager, Mr. Genova?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes, that's correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. So nothing more. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. We will move to vote. Director Folska, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'm not sure if our new Board members have
had the opportunity to see this. But years ago, I think that Director Walker, Director RiveraMalpiede were on the Board when John Tayer, at the time, was head of this, I think, the Fiscal
Sustainability book. You guys-- so if you don't have a copy, I'd encourage you to get a copy and
maybe take from that as some foundation to work from and implement your new ideas in there and
expand upon it. But that's all. Thank you, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. We will have an update on that item later on as well. Let's move
to vote on the mid-term financial plan. Director Folska, you were the mover. Director Williams,
you were the second. And this passes unanimously.
We will move to the next item tonight, and it is the approval of next year's fiscal policy. It is
recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approves and adopts the revised fiscal policy statement for 2020. This recommended action
supports the following General Manager's goals: core goal number three of strong financial
management and task goal number one of fiscal sustainability. Is there a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: Moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: That was Director Whitmore?
[INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I'll let you elaborate.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Heather McKillop. So each year we bring
this fiscal policy back to you. That's why it has a year on it. And it really serves as a policy that
drives staff to be able to put together, in this case, the 2020 budget, the mid-term financial plan
next year, and the long-range financial plan next year. And then bring it back every year. And
every year we tend to make updates or update it for whatever the latest information we have.
So based on that, I'm going to turn it over to Jannette Scarpino and ask her to walk through some
of the recommendations and changes we've gotten from both Board members, as well as staff
recommendations for changes to the 2020 policy.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes. In the section entitled Revenue Policy, there is a rewrite based on
comments that we received from some Board members. The changes are from staff in that section.
Also, there are other changes that staff made where we make reference to the asset management
policy. This is our internal policy. And we've done some wording clarification around mid-term
financial plan and SBP/APE, which were the words we formerly used.
There is a marked up copy for your review. We will take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Any questions. I don't see any. And so we will move-SHELLEY COOK: Oh, this is where, I believe Shontel-- so go ahead. I was just wanting to make
sure [INAUDIBLE]. My apologies. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Director Cook. This is where I suggested that
we add social equity on packet page 43. There are three bullets. After number one, is
understandable, is implementable, and is equitable.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, I'm sorry. [INAUDIBLE]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. That's all. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry. Can you repeat that again?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. It's packet page 43. Number one, there are three bullet points. The first
is under, is understandable, is implementable, and is equitable. And my suggestion is to add social
equity instead. And so it may say achieve social equity or whatever language makes the most sense
to make that actionable.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, are you suggesting-- you're making a motion to amend this?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, I sent this ahead of time.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It just didn't make it into.

SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yes. My apologies. I thought you were talking about an item on the
alternatives list. Forgive me.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I believe, Rolf-- I'm looking at Rolf. But I believe it would need to
be an amendment if you wanted to make that change-KEN MIHALIK: Want it in for this year, or for next year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I sent it in advance of this meeting. So I'm happy to.
ROLF ASPHAUG: That's-- this is Rolf Asphaug. Chair, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel.
Yes, it could be-- a motion and second would be required to amend this. But it could be done
unanimously if everyone's fine with it, you know, unanimous consent. Or it could be discussed
and put to a vote, similar to the last motion with regard to a wording change. But I can't see where
that-KEN MIHALIK: It's under revenue pol-HEATHER MCKILLOP: The first one on revenue policies.
SHELLEY COOK: Top of page 43.
KEN MIHALIK: The first item. Do you happen to have-ROLF ASPHAUG: Oh, it's not in the Board report, OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: May I ask a question while we're having this discussion?
KEN MIHALIK: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So just from a staff perspective, since we have to try to implement it, so
are we saying then if we were to say achieve social equity that that's the only equity that we need
to look at in our fare policies? That's how I would interpret it if we replaced it in its entirety. So I
just wanted to clarify that, to make sure I understand.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate you asking that question. I don't know if we've actually come to
a definition of what equity is. And the reason I'm asking about social equity is because we haven't
determined what equity is.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Rolf.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, Rolf Asphaug again. If you have a motion and a second to change, if I
understand correctly, you're changing the words "is equitable" to "achieve social equity." If there's
a motion and a second, then that can be discussed and voted on. Or it can be agreed to by

acclamation, if you wish. But that's where it needs to be from a, I guess from a parliamentary
standpoint.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely. Thank you. So is that your motion is to change that to be "is socially
equitable?"
SHONTEL LEWIS: I mean, you can wordsmith it how you like, "achieve social equity," "is social
equitable." But yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Well, before we get to discussion, is there a second on that? And then we
can discuss, if there is one. OK. A second by Director Rivera-Malpiede. And then we can go to
discussion. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Am I speaking to this amendment?
KEN MIHALIK: You are speaking to this motion to amend Director Lewis's.
KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: You are out? OK, Director Cook. Director Cook, are you speaking on the motion
to amend?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. And Heather McKillop brings up a good point. Because one of the issues
that has cropped up in talking about the fares is what happens with the zones and geographically.
So I wonder if you'd be open to a slight modification maybe that says, "addresses equity both
socially and geographically" or something like "is equitable, including socially," or something like
that that leaves open consideration of these other issues that are coming to the fore also. OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE]
SHELLEY COOK: So in the same vein as the Chair offered a friendly amendment on mine, I
would offer that as a friendly amendment on yours, if you are willing. Or if you'd prefer to see a
separate vote on that or not is perfectly fine. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: All right. Well, let's hold that friendly amendment and have some more
discussion. Director Catlin.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'm speaking to the same point that Director Cook
made. I think equitable really addresses a broader consideration that might include social equity.
So I support what Director Cook mentioned, that if we can make sure that we don't lose sight of
those other pieces of the equity discussion, I think that's important. Not just to address social equity
but some of those other components.

KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I guess that'd be my question is, as well. I don't understand what
the difference between something being equitable, that means equal to everything, versus socially
equitable. What do you gain by adding that word?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Would you like me to respond?
KEN MIHALIK: Sure. Director Lewis, you can respond.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I think as a Board we haven't defined what equity is. And if we are trying
to achieve social equity, then we understand that we can't both achieve social equity and
geographical equity. And so until the Board grapples with how we define equity, I'm concerned
that we move away from achieving social equity. So it's not just about equality. So equality and
equity are different terms. I appreciate that question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Broom. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So given that the motion is a little bit ambiguous or has a little bit of
wiggle room in it, I would recommend, or I would suggest that it read "is socially equitable."
Because "achieve social equity" is a huge plate. OK.
And then to address Director Cook's Director Catlin's comments. I think adding, possibly adding
another bullet that says geographic equity might address that. Because there are different types of
equity, which is why achieve social equity is such a-- equity is such a big word. But that might be
a suggestion that could address their concerns also. It is a suggestion that might their concerns.
And that's all I have. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Walker. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Third friendly amendment for Director Lewis's
consideration. Third bullet point, I would say, should read "is equitable in all respects, including
socially and geographical."
SHONTEL LEWIS: I like that.
VINCE BUZEK: She's staring blankly at me. But that's all I have to say. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that I was originally going to speak to the whole thing, but since we
seem to be talking about this concept, in general I think that the staff did a really good job of

working hard to address all of the concerns that we have been bringing up. And I think that equity
has been a huge sticking point for this group for some time now. And so I would be in favor of
leaving it to say "is equitable" and all that that implies. The definition of equity is actually fair and
impartial, whether it's social, racial, ethnic, geographic. I don't know. Yeah, so I would be in favor
of leaving it as is and hope that we would all feel like we were covered. But I'd like to thank you
all for the work that you did. I think this is, generically the whole thing is well done. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. My question for Director Lewis is, what is this
definition of social equity? I mean I think that her point is quite right. We haven't dealt with that
yet. And so before I could move forward with it, I I'd like to see a clear definition of social equity,
socially equitable. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Folska. Director Menten, are you, by chance, on the
phone?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Yes, I am.
KEN MIHALIK: Do you have any questions or comments on this motion to amend with the social
equity item?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): It is difficult for me to hear on my end. I'm trying to chime
in as best as I can. So I'll have to say, no, I do not at this moment. But I'm heading that way.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, we'll see you soon. Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the question that is raised
by Director Lewis and this amendment, and I think that it helps to have further dialogue about it.
But I also have to agree with Director Williams, and I believe Director Folska, to this extent, that
saying is equitable does, in fairness, contemplate all elements of equitable. To say we haven't
defined equitable, so let's say social equity, begs the question of, have we defined social equity or
geographic equity? And I think it's good to have the discussion, to shine a light on it so that we
can ensure that staff is aware that all of the elements that one might consider as making a policy
equitable are addressed and are not ignored.
I think if you start putting in one or even two, you run the risk that you leave out others. And for
that reason, the elegance and simplicity of just saying is equitable is preferable. So I will
respectfully oppose the amendment and would move to keep-- and would suggest that we keep it
as "is equitable."
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. You were reading my mind, because I was thinking
that the inclusion of a couple of items would be at the exclusion of all other things. And so if we
define it here, it's like that, and I think we limit ourselves later on. So I will not be in favor.

Now I guess, going back, there were these-- the ambiguity that Director Walker used to describe
it. Would you mind rephrasing-- or I guess, yes, I know, Rolf, they can withdraw the original
amendment if they both-ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, I think just-- Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel-- just to point out, I
believe that if I understood correctly that Director Cook's suggestion was accepted or generally,
was generally acceptable, so that the current motion is to change the words "is equitable" to
"addresses equity both socially and geographically." OK. So "addresses equity, including socially
and geographically." If nobody objects, then that is the motion that is-- if nobody objects to that
wording of the amendment, then that's the motion to amend that's before the Board as to whether
they want to vote it up or down.
KEN MIHALIK: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Say it one more-ROLF ASPHAUG: "Addresses equity, including socially and geographically." To change that
from-SHELLEY COOK: "Including social equity and geographic equity." Does that sound better?
Including? OK.
ROLF ASPHAUG: "Addresses equity, including social and geographical?"
KEN MIHALIK: I just wasn't sure, because there were a couple of other suggestions that were. So
if that's the one we're going to go with on this. So we will vote. Director Lewis, you were, of
course, the mover. Director Rivera-Malpiede, the second and again, this is the motion to amend.
You are the mover.
And this motion to amend passes nine Yeses and five Nos. The five Nos, Director Broom, Director
Folska, Lubow, Tisdale and myself.
So we will go back to the main motion of the 2020 fiscal policy.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair? Excuse me. Chair Mihalik, I think Director Menten had indicated she
was voting against, or that she was voting no. To a change-KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you for that clarification. Director Menten will, by the voice vote,
will be a No as well.
Is there any other discussion on the main motion? Seeing none, we will vote on that as well. And
Director Williams, you were the mover. Director Whitmore, you were the second.
And the main motion of the approval of the 2020 fiscal policy passes, 12 Yeses and 2 Nos. Director
Folska and myself being the Nos.

We will move on to the third recommended action tonight. And this is to approve the pension plan
contribution. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2020 contribution of $6.1 million to RTD salaried employees
defined benefit pension trust, or the DB plan, which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement.
It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopts a 2020 contribution of 9% of each
participant's eligible compensation to the salaried employees defined contribution plan, known as
the DC plan, which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals: task goal number two
of addressing service and human capital. Is there a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Broom and Williams. The floor is yours.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. Each year we bring to you both the pension
and the benefit plan for approval for the contribution that would go into the 2020 budget. The first
one is the salary DB plan, or the pension plan for salaried employees. This has been closed to
salaried employees since January of 2008. So any employees in RTD prior to that date are under
this plan. Any employee starting after January of 2008 are in the other plan, otherwise known as
the DC plan.
We do a presentation each spring, in usually February. The last couple years it's been on
Valentine's Day. Our actuarial comes and presents to you the status of that plan. We have been
trying over the last several years to make an increased contribution each year to try to get closer
to what the actuarial is recommending. We are not there yet. The actuarial is recommending, I
believe it's $8.1 million. And we're recommending a $6.1 million, based on budgetary constraints.
That does mean it takes a little longer to get to a fully funded plan. But the plan currently is right
around the 80% funded mark. So we're in pretty good condition. And what we're trying to do is
keep it there so that it doesn't regress to a lower funded amount.
In the last couple years, the trustees have made several adjustments to the plan to make some more
realistic assumptions around the mortality tables that we use. The Board approved that amendment
last year. In addition, we've made some more conservative assumptions around earnings, lowering
it from 7.5% to 7%. So we feel like we're in a situation where we have a pretty good understanding
of what we need to do to fund that plan. And I feel comfortable with the $6.1 million contribution.
And there are several other trustees at the table, if they would like to chime in on that.
On the DC plan, we're recommending a 9% contribution to that. That has been the case since we
closed the old plan. That has been the recommendation to the Board. And we would like to move
forward with that. We do tend to fund a higher percentage of the plan for the older employees for
the pension plan because that pension plan is closed. Therefore the amount of contribution for
salaries tends to increase every year, as we have less and less people that pay into that pension--

or less and less people working in that plan, more and more people retired, otherwise pulling down
on that plan.
So that is the recommendation of staff and be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: I don't see any anybody lining up in the queue for this, so we will move to a vote.
Director Broom, you were the mover. Director Williams, you were the second.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Chair Mihalik, I would like to vote on this one.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, yes, please.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Natalie Menten. You tell me when you would like that.
KEN MIHALIK: You can-- now's a good time.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): No.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. And this passes, with two Nos, Director Menten and myself.
Thank you, all. We're moving right along. Next up is the benefit plan item. And it reads as such.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the 2020 plan year salaried benefits plan and authorizes the General Manager
CEO, or his designee, to enter into agreements with the insurance carriers. This recommended
action supports the following General Manager's goals: task goal number two, addressing service
and human capital. Is there a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Whitmore and Rivera-Malpiede. Heather, just like last
time. You've got the floor.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. Heather McKillop. Just a quick update. I wanted to just point out a
couple things. Because I know many of the Board members weren't here when the original Board
gave us direction. But one of the things we put in the discussion and the background information
was the Board had directed staff multiple years ago to try to bring some parity to what RTD was
paying as far as the contribution to both Kaiser plan and the Cigna plan. We have, as a agency,
contribute significantly more to the Cigna plan than we have to the Kaiser plan.
And so the direction that we got was try to bring that up to parity, meaning have RTD contribute
something similar to Kaiser as we are contributing to Cigna, or vise versa, contributing to Cigna
similar to what we're contributing to Kaiser. So we've been working towards that. It was a
significant increase for employees. So we have spaced that over a multi-year plan. We originally
looking at doing it over a three-year period of time.

That drove quite a few people to the Kaiser plan and we tended to have then the employees that
tended to be sicker on the Cigna plan, which then drove up those costs. So we backed it off a little
and we went to a five-year implementation plan to bring the Cigna participants and the contribution
that RTD makes towards that over a five-year period of time versus a three-year period of time.
So the employee who chooses Cigna is going to see a larger increase than they would see, based
on the numbers that we show you here, because they'll be paying a larger portion of the total
premium amount.
So the good news is for Kaiser in both the high deductible and the HMO plan, our increases were
under 2.5%. That's pretty much unheard of right now. So we continue to see very, very good rates
in that area. When it comes to the Cigna plan, with no plan changes we see a 14.6% increase on
both the high deductible and the PPO. And as I mentioned, the employee themselves will see a
slightly larger increase than that because they'll be absorbing a higher amount of the premium and
RTD will be absorbing less of that.
On the dental plan, the recommendation from staff is that we increase the annual maximum to
$2,500. The amount of dental costs have gone up significantly, and especially when you start
seeing things like crowns, implants, and those type of things, that deductible is met in one visit,
potentially. So there was a recommendation from our broker that we increase that to what they're
seeing in the market right now, which is about $2,500 deductible. That increases the annual
premium by 3.3%.
And then our life and disability, no increases because we have a rate guarantee. And then vision,
again, no changes because we have a rate plan guarantee.
So overall, we're seeing a projected increase to be 1.8% above the 2019 benefit costs. We've listed
those costs down below, if you have any questions. But I have to say, it's pretty remarkable that
we're only seeing these type of increases under 2% right now overall.
So with that, I would ask for any questions that you might have.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Heather. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I am just concerned about the almost 15% premium
increases for Cigna. Because it almost seems like a penalty. It's a big increase. And is there-- I
think you mentioned that you've already modified it from three years to five. If you find that there
are a lot of people dropping it, would you think of modifying it again in some way so that it
wouldn't be so high next year?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Potentially-- I'm sorry, this is Heather McKillop. Potentially yes. I mean,
that's what we did this year. We went from a three year to a five year. The Benefits Committee
recommended that. The numbers you're seeing here, though, are the plan changes that-- or are the
increased costs that Cigna has given us before we even make those adjustments to the employees'
portion of the plan. So those are just the premium increases from Cigna themselves.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: And so we took that into consideration when we moved it from three to
five. Because with these increases plus the increases to get us closer to the contribution for Kaiser,
it was significant.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So that's why we spread it out longer.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. Like I said, though, 15% is a pretty hefty increase.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. How many people are still in Cigna? I mean, you're going to
reach some point where it doesn't make sense to offer Cigna anymore.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We probably will get to that point by year five. But right now I would
have to get you those figures. I don't have them off the top of my head.
BOB BROOM: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. No other speakers. We will vote on this. Director Whitmore, you were the
mover. Director Rivera-Malpiede, the second.
And the motion passes, 13 Yeses and one No, one being Director Lewis. And Director Menten,
are you still on the phone with us?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Yes, I am. I'll be a No vote.
KEN MIHALIK: A No vote. OK. So I amend that. 13 Yeses and two Nos, Director Lewis and
Director Menten.
On to the next one. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to increase the contract authority amount with Cambridge Systematics. This is contract
number 1-5 Delta Juliet 0-0-5, from the current level of $763,728, by $300,000, to a new total
contract amount of $1,063,728. This recommended action supports the following General
Manager's goals: core goal number one of successful delivery of transit services.
Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.

PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Williams and Catlin.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop, just very quickly. What we're trying to
accomplish here is ask for an increase to the contract with Cambridge Systematics for them to
include FlexRide in the open trip planner, so that when someone goes out there to schedule a trip,
they can include FlexRide in that trip planning, as well as giving our service agents, customer
service agents, the ability to do that when they get a call from a customer to be able to do that for
them in the trip planning application, which is not available right now.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm in support of this, because a number of comments that we heard
at my telephone town hall pertained to this particular component. And I've had constituents who
are FlexRide customers who have requested this. So I think this is a good-- I think it's a timely
move. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm in support of this also. Because we need to keep current with what's
available to help people use our services. FlexRide is an underused service that we'd like to see
more people use. This will help them to do that. And generically, we just need to keep current with
what's available in the market for technology to help with transit. So thank you very much for
doing this.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Let's move to vote. Director Williams, you were the mover. Director Catlin,
the second. Director Menten, are you still with us and how would you vote?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): I'll be a Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, with your Yes, it passes 15 Yeses.
OK, next one. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached resolution, number blank, the resolution authorizing the
issuance of sales tax revenue bonds for the FasTracks project of the Regional Transportation
District of Colorado to refund certain outstanding FasTrack bonds providing for other matters
related to such bonds and the security therefore and approving the execution and delivery of certain
documents in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby. This recommended action
supports the following General Manager's goals: core goal number three, strong financial
management; task goal number three, ensure fiscal sustainability.
And I'm sure you're going to help us understand what all that means.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.

KEN MIHALIK: Yes, sorry. Director Lubow and Director Folska?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So yes, that was written by our bond attorney. So you can tell that was
written by them. So I just want to bask in the moment. The next two items are good news. And so
I'm going to turn it over to Brenden to walk you through what we're trying to accomplish here.
And what we're trying to get you to approve this evening and let you know. So Brenden, take it
over.
BRENDEN MORGAN: All right. Good evening. I'm Brenden Morgan, the Senior Manager of
Debt Investments here at RTD. This resolution discusses RTD sales tax revenue bonds for the
FasTracks project which were issued back in 2010. There are currently approximately $77 million
worth of these bonds outstanding today. The bonds are callable in November of 2020, where we
will have the option to call the bonds and refinance them. The final payment of these existing
bonds is in the year 2038, and they're currently paying a 5% coupon.
So the approaching call dates and the current low interest rate environment have combined to give
opportunity, to RTD this opportunity to refinance these bonds at a lower interest rate and obtain
some interest expense savings over the remaining life of the bonds. Given current market
conditions, which are, of course, subject to change, we look like we could realize a net present
value savings of approximately $15.9 million, which is equal to about 20% of the principal
outstanding and that savings would be realized between the years 2020 and the year 2038. RTD
fiscal policy and the resolution attached here require a minimum savings of 3% or more. So we're
looking closer to 20% savings that we could obtain right now.
So through this resolution, we are asking the Board to authorize the refinancing of these sales tax
bonds through the issuance of new tax-exempt sales tax bonds through a forward delivery
agreement where the securities we priced this year, in 2019, and delivered next year, in the year
2020, closer to the call date. Drafts of all the related documents, including the offering documents,
continuing disclosure agreements, everything related to these bonds is printed out and in the Board
Office, available for your review.
As far as advice we're receiving here, we have our financial advisor, Mike Newman from Hilltop
Securities is in the audience tonight. He flew in from Dallas to be with us this evening. Butler
Snow is our bond counsel. And the bonds would actually be sold by an underwriting syndicate
consisting of RBC, Harvestons, and Stifel.
So would be happy to answer any questions you may have.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Obviously there's going to be a large escrow loss in these
transactions. What kind of a rate are we going to get on the new bonds versus what is the yield on
the Treasuries or securities that will go into the escrow? What's that delta?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah, that's a good question. And part of the challenge with answering
that is that that escrow would not be funded until sometime next year, in 2020, when we call the

old bonds and deliver these new bonds. So we don't have-- we have some assumptions around that
AND what that might look like. But you're absolutely right, there will be an escrow loss. And that
is included-- assumptions based on current market conditions are included in these numbers that
are in the Board memo today. So there's $15.9 million in savings is net of any escrow losses that
you're referring to.
So while they are part of the cost of doing this transaction, overall when you net it all together it's
still a big benefit financially for our RTD.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Broom. I don't see anybody else. We will move to vote
on this. Director Lubow, you were the mover. Director Folska, you were the second. And Director
Menten, if you're still with us, you can vote now.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): I'm a Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: You're a yes, OK. OK, same as before, unanimous, 15 Yeses.
And we'll segue right into the next one. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approve the attached resolution, number blank, the
resolution authorizing the execution and delivery by the RTD of a lease purchase agreement and
related documents in connection with the refinancing of the 2010A certificates of participation, or
COPs. Is there a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska and Director Cook. OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. I'm going to have Brenden walk through this
one. It's very similar to the last one. But he'll tell you the nuances and differences.
BRENDEN MORGAN: OK. Good evening again. Brenden Morgan here. So this resolution will
sound very similar to the one we just discussed. But instead of dealing with sales tax bonds, this
is relating to our 2010A certificates of participation. They were originally issued in the par amount
of $312 million. We've paid off a substantial amount of those and refinanced a portion of them. So
there's currently only about $77 million outstanding.
Again, these COPs are callable in 2020, and they're paying coupons including 5% and 5.5% today.
So very similar situation, where current low interest rate environment combined with the upcoming
call dates give RTD the opportunity to refinance these securities to achieve interest expense
savings.
So the savings for this transaction, again, net of all escrow costs and, as Director Broom mentioned
on the last resolution, net of all costs here, net present value savings are approximately $14.8
million in current market conditions. So that's equal to approximately 19.3% of the principal of

the outstanding COPs. And again, our policy requires a minimum of 3%. This transaction, given
current market conditions, could achieve over 19%. So we're well in excess of our minimum
threshold.
Again, drafts of all of these documents related to this potential certificate of participation refunding
are available in the Board Office, printed out for your review. We are again receiving financial
advice from our financial advisor, Michael Newman here from Hilltop Securities. Butler Snow is
our bond counsel on this transaction. And the underwriting syndicate would consist of JP Morgan,
Harveston Securities, and Jeffries.
Be happy to answer any questions you may have on this transaction
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Morgan. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Do you plan on closing in November, or what's your schedule
look like?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yeah. So these again would be sold through a forward delivery
agreement, where we would price the securities in November of this year and then we would call
the securities much closer to the call date in 2020. Right now we're only allowed to, in current tax
law we're only allowed to issue new tax-exempt securities once you're within 90 days of the call
date.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, if I could just clarify something I forgot to mention. So I just
wanted to point out that the bonds that we discussed are FasTracks bonds. So those savings will
be applied towards FasTracks. These bonds have a combination of Base system and FasTracks,
with the majority of it being FasTracks. So I just want to make sure that you know that that's where
the money would be going when we refund them.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. That is good to know. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Simply wanted to thank the staff for pulling this together quickly so as to take
advantage of the lower interest rates. And just appreciate the fact that we're able to move forward
and see these savings.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, it's one of those creative elements that we talked about earlier. So someone's
already doing it. OK, let's vote on this. Director Folska, you were the mover. Director Cook, you
were the second. And again Director Menten, if you are still with us and care to vote?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): I'll be a Yes
KEN MIHALIK: OK. OK. And let the record show that Director Lewis is actually a Yes, and so
it would be 15 Yeses.

[INAUDIBLE]
So we'll make sure that correction gets made. And we are done, believe it or not, with the
recommended actions tonight for this committee.
And we will move right into the update for the sales and use tax forecasts from our friends at the
Leeds School of Business. Give them a minute or so to get situated and get oh, well, that was fast.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sorry, we're just doing a little furniture rearranging here.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Is this going to work? Moving right along. Well, thank you for inviting us
to present. As a brief, very brief piece of background, this is the ninth year we have been doing
this. For the first six years, since there's new commissioners and so on, we produced a quarterly
forecast. In the most recent contract, that was changed to a two times a year forecast. So we're here
twice a year presenting and updating the forecast results.
Our team consists of the three people you see sitting here, Professor Robert McNown from the
Economics faculty at CU-Boulder, myself, Rich Wobbekind, Associate Dean for Business and
Government Relations at Leeds and Senior Economist at the Leeds School of Business, Miles
Light, who is a Research Associate with us at the Business Research Division, and Brian
Lewandowski, who's the Associate Director of the Business Research Division.
And I highlight that because we believe our team contributes kind of a unique blend of expertise.
Miles does almost all of his work in the private sector, government finance, too, but all outside of
the academic environment. Brian and I are straddling both lines. And Robert comes from a strong
academic background, but does a lot of consulting now. So we think our team is, I don't want to
say unique, but has a lot of experience and a lot of background.
So the presentation will be brief, over the next, I think they gave us 20 minutes, but we'll try to
even be faster. We're going to talk about the overall state of the economy. The presentation outline
is an economic overview. Talk a little bit about the model that's been developed, the issues
surrounding uncertainty, the forecasts that we've produced and the revisions, and then comparison
with other forecasts that are out there, including the Colorado Legislative Council and the Office
of State Planning and Budgeting.
As you know, if you read the paper any day of the week right now, you know that this is a very
uncertain economic environment. We're seeing that in the data in Colorado and nationally. And I'll
try to highlight a couple of those things as we go through the presentation.
Forecast for GDP growth, last year, 2018, was about close to 3%. This year the number is running
about 2.3%. And the forecast for next year are in a wide range, but 1.7% is sort of the consensus
forecast right now. We do have some concern about the growth next year. And we'll tell you a
couple of reasons why we have that concern as we go forward.
National employment through the first nine months of 2018, about 220,000 jobs a year through
the first nine months of this year, down to 160,000 jobs per month and we think continuing to scale

down through 2020. Yet with all of that, we have this incredibly tight labor market. We have very
low unemployment rates, as you are well aware. So it's not all doom and gloom. It's still a very
solid number. But it is showing a definite slowing in the national economy, which we think filters
down to the state economy.
In the forecasts we're using Moody's baseline growth expectations, and it's something to highlight
on here going out through 2025, when you look at the Moody's forecasts that we subscribe to, is
that the number is below 2.5% all the way forward from 2020 all the way out to 2025. So the
anticipation is GDP growth nationally peaks at potential at 2.5, but is well below potential most of
the years in the forecast horizon, both short-term and even longer term.
Nonetheless, state employment growth. Colorado continues to be strong. We're sort of in the
number 11 slot now, whereas we were a top 10 performing state. We've dropped down a little bit
but we're still a very strong state. And I'll tell you a little bit more as we go along with that.
The thing that's important to highlight here is the consumer is an absolutely critical element of the
economy. And right now we're seeing the consumer starting to show a little bit of weakness in
terms of confidence. The last couple of months have been showing somewhat serious declines in
consumer confidence. And it's hard to see off of this slide but consumer confidence year-over-year
is actually down. So we're starting to pay a lot of attention to the consumer, the consumer and retail
sales, automobile sales, all of the things associated with that.
As you know, the consumer is 70% of the economy. And certainly, the consumer has been carrying
the economy over the past year. Business investment has been slow. Manufacturing has had
slowdowns. So we've seen other parts of the economy really pretty weak, but the consumer has
been the sort of shining star. So we're paying a lot of attention to that as we go forward.
One of the things you could look at and be a little bit maybe more optimistic about is the reduction
in interest rates. We have seen the Fed start to move, bringing the interest rates down. That could,
of course, spur additional consumption. Hopefully it will spur additional investment in the
economy. But this is a wait-and-see at this particular point in time.
And of course, one of the things that's been going on that you've seen or heard a lot about is the
inverted yield curve, short-term rates being higher than long-term rates. In many cases that has led
to-- we have seen many times in history where recessions have followed the inverted yield curve.
Not all times, but has happened a number of times. So people are paying a lot of attention to the
inversion in the yield curve. It has not happened for-- this is not a really long period of time to be
inverted. So we're going to pay close attention to that as we go forward in terms of looking at the
macro economy.
Our own Confidence Index kind of made us take a little bit of pause when we released it last week,
or two weeks ago. It went negative for the first time since the recession. And in particular, our
business panelists in Colorado were very pessimistic about the national economy, but they actually
had all of the categories except sales in negative or contracting territory. This was very troubling
to us. The state doesn't appear to be doing all that badly, or poorly. But the uncertainty between

trade policy and political elections and other things that are out there seems to be really causing
businesses to take a wait-and-see attitude.
And that's the reflection I was mentioning earlier. Both in Colorado and nationally, the business
fixed investment numbers are very weak. So we're starting to see that area of concern about capital
investment and the economy.
On the up notes, if you will, you see Colorado's change in population. We continue to be a place
that people want to live. We continue to get a supply of labor from other parts of the country. But
the number has been coming down, both the natural rate of increase, births versus deaths has been
coming down, but also the migration into the state more recently is also a little bit slower.
Nonetheless, this does provide a continued source of labor in a state that has a very, very low
unemployment rate. So that's positive, at least in some dimension, if you're thinking about labor
force and you're thinking about workforce for your economy.
So our employment growth rate now is just a hair under 50,000 for the year, in 2019. This is down
to a 2% rate. You'll see this on the next slide, and we talk about this in a minute. But we'll talk
about the overall growth rate at 2%. Again, we had the bump up in 2018, much like the national
economy, after the Jobs Tax Cut Act seemingly stimulating the economy and government spending
stimulating the economy. But now we seem to be gliding back into sort of a more gentle trajectory.
Now I want to highlight this slide. Because we had to hand the slides in last week, and on Friday
the new employment report came out for the state. And the year-over-year rate went from 2 point,
I think it says 4% up there on this slide-- I'm having a little trouble-- but 2.4% to 2% year-overyear. The report last Friday was very weak for the state. The monthly number was extremely low
and the prior month's number was revised down significantly.
So we are starting to really see this sort of slowdown in employment in the state. Still, healthy,
2%, but a definite slowdown from where we've been over the prior year. And you can also see the
unemployment rate on the right hand side very, very strong numbers, meaning low numbers
throughout the state.
This one, you have the slide, so hopefully you can see it a little bit easier than looking up at the
screen. But we continue to have issues related to inflation, and Colorado being higher than the
national number. So the blue bars are the national number, Colorado are the red bars. Just based
on your conversation a few minutes ago, you might enjoy looking at the bottom right hand corner,
which is the cost of medical care in Colorado inflation adjustment and medical care versus the
national number. You can see that's been a really difficult area for Colorado. We've had big issues
in terms of medical cost. Left hand side, too, we've kind of all know that the shelter numbers are
much higher in Colorado, with the cost of housing and housing affordability.
So in the closing couple of slides, let me just highlight this one. We really like to keep track of
how the state's doing on an annual basis, three-year, five-year, 10-year, in what we would call key
metrics that are economic metrics. Now there's not one up there for air quality or other types of
things that are extremely important in a society. But these are things that most economists or labor

force people would be paying attention to, employment rates, income growth, population growth,
GDP or output growth, labor force participation, and so on.
And I draw your attention to the one-year column. The numbers are very, very strong for Colorado
year-over-year at this particular point. Labor force growth is a little bit slower, at 17. We had more
dramatic labor force growth but we're kind of running out of people. Labor force participation rate,
however, the second number from the bottom, we have the fourth highest labor force participation
rate in the country. We have been bouncing around 3 and 4. We have had a significant uptick over
the last three years in people participating in the labor force.
And I would say a good sign, but if you're a rental property owner, you don't agree with us, but the
bottom line, we've dropped to the 16th in terms of home price appreciation year-over-year. We
were running in the top five pretty much every year. And we were number one for 10 years, until
the last quarter. We now moved to the number two slot. So we definitely have, while we still have
over 5% home price appreciation year-over-year, we're definitely seeing a slowing in home price
appreciation. And I would say, a welcomed slowing in home price appreciation. Personal
statement.
So we have a list of potential concerns that are on the next slide. We can discuss these, if you like,
when we do Q&A. But these are the things we are paying the most attention to when we look at
sort of public policy. And hopefully, that background sets up my colleague, Professor McNown,
to talk about the model and talk about your revenue forecast.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thank you, Rich. And thank you to the Board for inviting us here to present
our forecast.
So the background that Rich has presented is, of course, very important to give the context for the
forecast that we've developed. Our forecasts rely very much on what's happening in the national
economy. And so we pay attention to, in particular, what Moody's is forecasting and rely on their
national forecast to drive our own model for the Colorado economy and for the District and, of
course, RTD revenues.
So the key variables in our short-term and medium term forecasts are these typical cyclical
variables, like employment, personal income, at the national level, gross domestic product, and
then most importantly, retail sales and taxable sales, for the US, for Colorado, and then also for
the District.
For the long-term forecasts, we rely much more on a supply side approach. We don't think we can
anticipate business cycle activity when we're talking about a 30-year forecast horizon. But we think
that in the long run, the most important driver of what's going to happen to the economy in real
terms is what's happening demographically. So the growth of the total population is slowing, both
nationally and locally, and it's aging considerably. And the population aging has serious
consequences for savings, the supply of labor, productivity of labor, total output, and ultimately,
household expenditures, as well.

So as I mentioned, the key variable for us is retail sales. And we would like to rely very heavily
on retail sales data from the state of Colorado to inform our forecast that retail sales at the District
level. We've been handicapped in this regard, because the state has until recently not been updating
the retail sales data for the state. So we've had to put together a patch, essentially. We rely on the
data that we have that's current for sales tax revenues at the state level as sort of a proxy that helps
us then sort of fill in the state data for retail sales. So it's one of the tricks that we use to keep our
model up to date.
So cutting to the essence of the exercise in the short-term forecast. So we continue to forecast, of
course, for the rest of 2019 and then into 2020 for the short-term forecast. And you can see that
our forecasted total revenue for 2019 at 2.7% and for 2020 at 2% is calling for very slow growth,
certainly relative to the 6% growth that you see there for 2018. And this is a reflection of the
weaknesses in the economy that Rich pointed to, a lot of the uncertainty that is impairing
investment spending that may ultimately affect consumer sentiment and lead to the weakness both
at the national and state, and then finally, local level economies.
So it's important that we recognize-- I want all of us to realize that our forecasts are going to be
subject to error. And of course, we do the best that we can to minimize that error and keep you
informed in a sort of truth in advertising here that this is a summary of the forecast errors going
back to 2015. And to read this table, the top row gives the date at which the forecast report was
made. And then I'll focus on the red numbers, because there's just too much data up there to look
at.
The red numbers are the forecasts percent errors for the given year. And if you look, for example,
at March, the column headed by March 2016, so that forecast that was made in March of 2016 was
using only data that was available through the end of 2015 because of lags in the reporting of that
data. And so you can see that that red number 1 means there was a 1% forecast error. The fact that
it's positive means that we over-forecast the actual revenue collections by 1%.
Also want to highlight that for the current year, at first it looked like, if you look at the rightmost
column there, it looked like our forecasts were coming in too high for the first two quarters there.
But now with the more recent data, if we look at the entire collections from January through August
of this year, our error in forecast is only a plus 0.3%. So we think that we're pretty much on target
for the current year.
Now for the medium term-- so we're charged with forecasting in the short term up to 18 months,
in the medium term out to six years, so taking us out to 2025. And we present forecasts for three
alternative scenarios. Here you can see two of the scenarios. The baseline that we're using and the
pessimistic are really quite close to each other. The optimistic scenario comes in a little higher for
the first several years and then there's basically convergence of the three forecasts.
These different scenarios are generated based on different model assumptions that Moody's uses
in projecting the national economy. And then we use those to drive the different forecasts for these
medium term scenarios.

And then finally, the long-term forecast. So this is certainly a challenge, forecasting out to 2050.
And for the most part, as I say, our long-term forecasts are driven by changes in real gross domestic
product and employment that are constrained by the aging of the population and the slower growth
of the population, the national, state, and the District levels. So basically, for example, these charts
here indicate that the average annual growth rate over the next three decades is going to be only
3.2%-- the growth rate in RTD revenues, I mean. And compare that with the 5.3% that we're
experiencing over the current decade. So there's considerable slowing of the economies and the
consequent slowing in the projected revenue growth for RTD.
And then finally, we always think it's important to see how our forecasts are comparing to some
of our peers. So we make some comparisons of some of the key state variables that we forecast,
comparisons with the Colorado Legislative Council and the Office of State Planning and
Budgeting. And of course, they're not in the business of forecasting RTD revenue, so we don't
have direct comparison there.
But you can see that-- so look first at the bottom part of this chart. And you can see that our
employment forecasts for the three agencies are really quite similar for 2019 and 2020. And you
can see the considerable slowing in employment growth that all three of these forecasters are
expecting for 2020. For example, we're expecting 2019 growth of 2% employment and 2020
growth of only 1.3%.
And then if you look at the upper half of the table, here's where we do differ substantially from
our partners, in that we're expecting considerably weaker growth in personal income. And I
suppose I would argue that our forecast, say, for 2020, our forecasted growth in personal income
at 0.2%, that seems extremely weak but is consistent, I suppose, with the fairly weak growth in
employment that we're projecting. So that again really emphasizes kind of pessimistic picture that
we are painting for the state and consequently, for the District.
So finally, just to wrap up I want to emphasize several aspects of our forecasting exercise. We
update these semiannually so that we can give you fairly up-to-date data on how to incorporate the
latest data into our forecasts and bring that to your attention. I've emphasized that our forecasts
can be too high or too low. Of course, we try to minimize the extent of the forecast error. We've
built this forecasting model using theoretically sound economics and state-of-the-art and sound
econometric time series methods, too.
We don't incorporate judgment in adjusting our forecast. We certainly use judgment in the
construction of the model, but we're not going to tinker with the forecasts if we don't like what
they look like. And I want to emphasize that RTD is, of course-- or the BRD (CU Business
Research Division) is independent of RTD and we don't have any particular political or financial
stake in the forecast numbers. Of course, our motivation is to provide you with the most accurate
forecasts that we can, given the data and, of course, the inherent uncertainty in the economies.
So thank you for your attention and we'd be happy to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for the presentation, gentlemen. I know there's a few people in line.
Director Williams, you'll be first.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Gentlemen, on page 96 of our packet-- I don't
know how that relates to what you guys have, 1.C.1.A. I'm wondering, and I know this is not yours,
I think this is Moody's, but how do we account for that nice bump in 2022 that I don't see reflected
anyplace else?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Oh, how do we account for the-- so the slide. You're talking about the slide
that I showed?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
RICH WOBBEKIND: OK. So Moody's, this particular scenario on their baseline growth
projections is calling for an extremely weak 2021. As you can see, this is based off of quarterlies,
I should tell you, not just annual. These are not annuals. So they have it bottoming out about
halfway through 2020 and then starting to see a recovery.
I suspect they've built in some sort of a political recovery that's not unusual to happen after an
election. So right now, there's a lot of uncertainty that's being sort of prognosticated, based on it's
an election year and what's going to happen in an election year. And maybe nothing will happen
in an election year. But getting back up to 2.2% is not overwhelmingly strong-- 2.5%. That's just
back to sort of long run.
So just a little cyclical dip, a little-- I would call it, they're charting the business cycle here for you.
Business cycle weakens, people start to recover, people start to spend, you get that little bit of an
upturn.
KATE WILLIAMS: I thank you for that. I was just interested that I didn't see this same motion
reflected in any of the other graphs and charts that we looked at. So I found that interesting. Thank
you.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah. I might add to that that our forecasts for RTD revenues are quite
weak for the current year and 2020 and into 2021. But following that, then there is a strong
resurgence. So in our medium term forecasts, the rate of growth of RTD revenues is expected to
move back to some of the historic levels that we've seen recently, around in the 5% and 6% range,
too. So that would be consistent with that slight upturn at the national level.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Let us hope.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah, let's hope.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Could you comment on the impact of student loan debt on our
sales tax revenue, and how does the student loan debt in Colorado compare with nationally?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Oh, boy. Ask me a question I can't answer. OK, thank you. I don't know
the answer to that last part. The student loan debt nationally, it was growing for a significant period

of time. It has A very stable delinquency rate on it. But people do think it affects retail sales,
consumption, expenditures, and so on. We have seen across all income brackets, maybe we can
share this slide with you, the percentage of income that is being spent on retail taxable goods is
falling across all categories. We had hypothesized several years ago that we had to pay a lot of
attention to the aging of the population. Because older people, the older demographic spends more
on services and less on taxable sales. But we're actually seeing that across all categories. And one
of the reasons people are suggesting that, especially in the lower age bracket cohorts, is that they're
carrying student loan debt. And also, they're paying more for housing so they have less to spend
in the retail category.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Sure.
KEN MIHALIK: And I'll just add to it. Delays other life events, like marriage and house and
children, if at all. So it's a big deal. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I just wanted to ask you about what looked like an
anomaly. Page 111, I believe the midterm scenario planning, the optimistic scenario goes
underneath the pessimistic scenario towards the end. And I thought, well, heavens, that's supposed
to-- how does that happen? Could you-ROBERT MCNOWN: That is a bit strange. And this is characteristic of Moody's alternative
scenarios that we've noticed before, as well, that there tends to be a convergence. I would say that
the differences out there at 2025 are not great. There's like a 2% difference between the highest
and the lowest forecasts there. And going five years out, that's certainly within the bounds of
uncertainty that we face in our forecast.
So I'd say it be more accurate to describe that as a convergence rather than we really expect the
optimistic forecast to be lower than the other two. So I think the Moody's models seem to
incorporate this reversion to the mean that if they're unusually strong for a couple of years, as in
the optimistic scenario, then there's a dampening out in a later period relative to their baseline
forecast.
RICH WOBBEKIND: I mean, I guess I'm saying the exact same thing slightly differently. They
run off a trend forecast, like 2.5%. And if you draw a trend line in there, if you get the bump, like
in 2018 that we got, then we're paying the price in 2019 and 2020. So they're building something
cyclical around sort of the long-term trend forecast.
So the optimistic scenario is not optimistic forever. It's optimistic for a period of time, and then it
reverts to the mean, as Robert just explained.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, it looks-- it's almost based on probability.

RICH WOBBEKIND: It's based on capacity of the economy, too. So your economy can only run
at a certain speed limit over the long haul. And they're building that in. You're not going to have
more people. We're not going to-- people are aging, all the types of things we talked about.
JUDY LUBOW: But when, they don't have any clue anymore than anybody else does. And they're
just putting-- OK. OK, thank you. I was just wondering.
ROBERT MCNOWN: We hope to have more of a clue. And I hope we have more of a clue that
there seemed to be some signs of weakening that we're focused on, particularly now.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. Director Folska.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I was wondering if you all think about
integrating climate change into your forecasting. It seems to me that one of the comments that
Chair Mihalik did make that I've been hearing resonate again and again is that younger people are
putting off marriage because of climate change and they didn't want to bring people into the world
because of that. I mean, I'm hearing that. And whatever it's worth, I'm wondering at what point-or even purchasing things that are electric cars versus fossil fuel things and that sort of thing.
So will you consider at some point in the future integrating climate change or some of those
factors?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Well, the demographic is in there directly. You know, if that's happening,
we're actually picking it up in the population numbers right now. And the birth rates have declined
in the state. That's one of the reasons when I showed that slide about population increase, births
versus deaths is getting to be a smaller and smaller number. And it's really-- it's driven, yes, people
are getting older and more people are dying-- but it's really being driven by a lower birth rate in
the state. So that sort of shows in there, even though we don't have it explicitly linked to that.
I don't know about the other part. I don't know if you have any thoughts on that.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, although we don't explicitly incorporate climate change into our
model, I think that climate change could have adverse implications for productivity, sort of
paralleling the adverse implications for productivity that are captured by the aging of the
population. So I think that to some extent our focus on the demographics, the aging of the
population, the slowing of the population growth is going to serve as somewhat of a proxy for
climate change effects, unless of course they are really horrendous and disastrous, as some climate
experts are predicting. That's certainly not in the scope of any of the forecasts that we're producing.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Folska. Thank you, gentlemen. I don't see any other
questions or comments for you. Thank you.

ROBERT MCNOWN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And Heather, you are up on the next one.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I am. So I'm going to let Jannette come up here. Jannette's going to run
you through the revenue portion of this in the slideshow. And then I'm going to talk to you a little
bit about the things that we've done to try to look at reductions so that we can balance the budget.
As you just heard, they're projecting a slightly, or a more pessimistic forecast for 2020. We will
be using their September forecast for this 2020 budget that we're walking you through. So
Jannette's going to cover that.
The other thing I wanted to mention is when they talked about just a 2% decrease, it's a small
amount in the scope of things. But when we look at that and we're getting over $600 million a year
in sales tax, 1% is $6 million, 2% is $12 million, I mean. So for us, it feels very painful, even
though statistically it's a small percentage change. And so that's what you're going to be seeing
here in a few minutes is that even though those percentage difference aren't huge, when it comes
to the actual dollar amounts, it is painful.
So with that, I'm going to let Jannette go ahead and walk through this portion of it. And then I'm
going to walk through some of the information that's in your Board Report.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. We brought forward our preliminary 2020 requested budget
in September, and we are now updating for changes in revenue. And we have continued to update
our budget for a number of changes. But I'm informing on the reductions in revenue. And as
Heather said, we will talk about expense reductions momentarily.
So budget overview. Long-term fiscal stability is our objective, is it not? And we need to deliver
our services and programs of our mission statement in a cost effective manner. Our fare revenue
and sales and use tax estimates have been revised downward. Service reductions or curtailments
and other cost savings or other revenue increases will become necessary to balance the budget in
2020. We are maintaining only high priority capital and expense projects in the budget. We're
starting with the mid-term financial plan and then making further reductions from that level. And
no new debt is issued in 2020.
So our assumptions. We have re-estimated our fare revenue. It is now lower by $17 million
compared to the mid-term financial plan. You've heard a lot about sales and use tax. The increase
over 2019 is estimated at 2%, and the 2019 increase over 2018 is 2.7%. This is from the CU Leeds
September forecast. This results in a figure that is lower by $25 million in 2020 compared to the
mid-term financial plan. So the total of those reductions in fare revenue and sales and use tax
compared to the mid-term financial plan is $42.3 million. This is system wide.
On the base side, that number is $29.7 million, and for FasTracks that number is $12.7 million.
We have locked diesel fuel at $2 a gallon. Our gasoline assumption remains at $2.90 a gallon. We
expect investment income to be down from 2019 due to lower interest rates. We customarily
escalate our capital and expense projects at the CPI. In 2020, that number will be 2.6%.

We are funding fleet purchases from previously issued debt and grant funds. Again, no new debt
is to be issued. And our planned increases to our fund balances include a $3 million increase to the
Board appropriated fund, no increase to the capital replacement fund, and an increase to the
unrestricted operating reserve at an amount to be determined, if that proves to be an increase.
So our challenges, again, the estimated revenue declines in fare box and sales and use tax revenue.
We need to maintain our O&M costs, operating and maintenance costs, within these revenue
constraints. We also have needs around state of good repair. We have deferred a number of projects
to make the mid-term financial plan and 2020 budget work. And we may have the possibility of
an economic slowdown, resulting in slower sales and use tax growth.
This is from the CU Leeds forecasts from September. We've circled the years '19, '20, and '21.
These are our quote-unquote light years, if you will. I don't like the word pinch years. But you see
that after 2021, as was mentioned, we see a resurgence in that the growth rates should return to
historic levels. So it's the three-year period there that will be difficult for us.
This chart, just trying to show the difference between where we were in 2019 and where we expect
to be in 2020. The blue bars are comparing the 2019 adopted budget to the then subsequent 2019
amended budget, where we used the March forecast. In sales and use tax, we lost $5.9 million over
that period. OK, the green bars represent our estimates for 2020. We started with the mid-term
financial plan from the March forecast and we are now sitting at the September forecast, which we
are incorporating in our 2020 requested budget. That change is the $25.2 million that I mentioned.
So this is just a table to kind of highlight our expected changes from the mid-term financial plan
to this 2020 requested budget, and the first slide here being for the base system. You can see the
change in fare box revenue of $14.5 million, compared to the mid-term financial plan, and the
change in sales and use tax of $15.1 million.
I like to show a pie chart. Those of you who are more-- who can take in information at this level,
you can see how our revenue sources break out. Sales and use tax at 60% of total sources. Federal
and local grants at 22%. Fare box revenue at 16%. Similarly, for FasTracks we see the change in
fare revenue compared to the mid-term financial plan of $2.5 million, and the change in sales and
use tax of about $10 million, the total there being $12.7 million, as I mentioned. And then
graphically, sales and use tax for FasTracks, about 48% of total revenue. Fare revenue at about
8%.
Our next steps. We are planning to bring the final recommended budget to this committee on
November 12th. We will then look for Board adoption of the 2020 budget on November 19th, and
that comes with a public hearing.
At this point, I will ask Heather to step in and talk about some of our changes in expenses.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So I just wanted to run through some things
we have in the Board packet, which is on page 2 of the packet, under the 2020 Budget.

I want to start out by saying we've itemized the base system reductions. We have been working on
FasTracks also. But as I told you, with some of the savings we're going to see in the refunding and
some other things, 2020 for FasTracks we have balanced. After 2020, it gets rough for a couple
years in FasTracks. But right now for the 2020 budget, we've been able to balance that.
Where we're struggling with is the Base system. And so as I mentioned to you last month, we had
just recently got the forecast and so we were scrambling to figure out how we were going to move
forward with those reductions. So we have been working with staff to look at various things that
have come up. And I wanted to walk you through some of the numbers on there because it might
be a little confusing.
So on the sheet that we have in there, we start by talking about the budget requests over the midterm financial target. And that's about $1 million.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
So page 2 of the packet information. I don't know what page it is. 115, then, in your packet. It's
before the PowerPoint presentation, I think. Or maybe it's after.
KEN MIHALIK: It might be packet page 1-- it might be packet page 116.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 116? OK, sorry. So on that page, again, the budget requests over the
mid-term financial plan target, when we put the mid-term financial plan together, we had a list of
all the projects and requests. And what this means is we have now received requests from our
various divisions that total $962,000 over what that original target was. So we either need to reduce
that cost or we need to solve for that dollar amount.
The next one on there are additional budget requests over the mid-term financial plan. So these are
things that have come in in the last month or so when we requested the 2020 budget figures, so for
them to put in their 2020 budget figures into our system.
A majority of those costs are related to insurance, so workmen's comp and liability insurance.
About almost $2.5 million of that is related to that. And that's one of the things we'll talk about
later. Our workmen's comp is running about $7 million, I believe, a year. That is a significant
increase that we've seen over the last several years. And so that's very troublesome. But it's
something that we have to fund. We don't have a lot of choice in that area. So we're solving also
for that additional $4 million right now.
Then the revenue shortfalls from the mid-term financial plan. And again, mid-terms are baseline
for the 2020. So what Jannette talked about is between the fare revenue and the sales tax revenue,
we need to solve for another $29 million. Assuming all those are things that we have to solve for
right now, we are looking for $34 point, almost $35 million.
So we started putting together a list. And this is a summary of that list. And again, I want to
mention, these are subject to change because we have a lot of work to do on some of these items,
and some of them will change just organically.

So the first thing that we're fairly certain about is the diesel lock we were able to lock in. That's a
$3 million savings, based on the amount of diesel that we typically purchase. So that's pretty solid.
We also have, as we just discussed, refunding from that interest savings. There is a very small
portion of those COPs that are related to the Base system. That amount in 2020 would be a savings
of $217,000. So that's something that we can count on.
The other thing that we're going to talk about later is our need to potentially curtail service
temporarily. We have just done an estimate on that because we don't have a plan yet. So that
number is definitely subject to change. So I just plugged a number in there for the future. That's
probably not going to be the number. It's probably going to be less than that, probably significantly.
And the Board has not taken any action on that one way or the other. So again, that is just a plug
number we have for now. We are working on other ways of potentially solving for that number at
this time.
The other thing is the administrative budget reduction. So what we have done is we've taken our
entire administrative budget, we've subtracted Bus and Rail, because they're our mission kind of
core things we do. So we're trying to keep them going and instead to reduce all our support
functions. So IT, HR, Capital Programs, anything that's not related to Budget, Finance, anything
that's not related directly to operations, we've asked them to reduce their budgets by 10%. And that
totals $9.6 million. We have not solved and received reductions that total that full amount yet, but
that is our target. So that could change also.
We're also looking at-- we had, in the mid-term financial plan for 2020, about $1 million of
additional FTEs. We have removed that. We have also looked at the mid-term financial plan
project requests, those lists we were talking about earlier. We have identified $7 million worth of
projects to defer.
We have also looked at not contributing to the unrestricted operating reserve. That was in the midterm scheduled for 1.1. And then we have looked at vacancy savings in our administrative budget.
So this is non-represented employees, so what we call salaried employees, reducing that vacancy
savings. And also, we would typically set aside 3% for a salary, results based, so merit-based pay.
We have reduced that in half to 1.5%. And that may change and go down further.
So with those, we are fairly close to balancing. But I don't want it to seem like we've balanced the
budget. Because a lot of these are in flux, and some more significantly than others.
But we did itemize some of those things. But I did feel it was important for you to know that we
are working towards this, that they are significant reductions. They will have impacts on things we
can accomplish. One of the things I've asked in the administrative budget reductions is to have a
list, every time they reduce something, what is it they're not going to do. So when we present the
2020 budget, we will be informed of what we will not be able to accomplish in 2020 that we were
planning on doing with that.
And I think that's important. Because so many times we do these budget reductions but we don't
say what we're going to do and not do, right? And so I want to make sure that the Board's aware
of that.

We are hoping to bring this back to you in November. We do know that there's a lot of work to do.
So I'm not sure that we'll be able to get there by the November 12th date. But we're going to work
very hard at doing that. And there might be other issues that will arise between now and then that
we'll have to deal with and then we'll be informing you of.
So with that, I'll be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Heather, and Jannette. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, on page 127, I'm looking at right now
we have sales and use tax of 60% and fare box of 16% and grants of 22%. Very nice pie chart,
easy to read. And in 2020, we're looking at sales and use tax of 48%, which I get, and fare box
revenue of 8%, which, unfortunately, I also get. I'm just wondering where we're going to get 18%
more of grant funding, since in my experience grant funding is getting tighter instead of less tight.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I think I need to clarify. The first chart that you're looking at is the 2020
revenue estimates for the Base system. The second one is for FasTracks. So it's not as though we
are going from 22% to 40% of grant revenue. The first one is for the Base system. The second one
is for FasTracks. We're just breaking out the sources.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you very much.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I just want to say thank you very much for your patience. And I also
wanted to thank staff, there are a bunch of people coming up. But they have been working very
hard in a very short period of time. Like I said, it's only been a couple weeks since we received the
new forecast. We were anticipating some reductions, but not quite to the extent that we are now.
So we'll continue to work through those. And I guess now I'll take a bunch more questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks for the presentation, all of the information and the work you're doing,
the tough work you're doing to make this balance. So I've already brought this up. And I don't want
to-- hindsight's perfect and all that. But in looking at the assumptions we built into our '19 model,
our 2019 model, we used the Leeds forecast, the 6.6% or something, even though that was higher
than 2018 and there was some indication in the presentation previously that we might see a decline.
So if we had been a little bit more conservative, I'm guessing we wouldn't be in quite the tight
position we're in now. It begs the question not of looking back and assigning responsibility or
anything, but saying are we using the right methodology? Should we be-- in the long term, I
understand we can't rectify this right away-- but should we be using something more like a moving
average or something that's lower, and then-- because the volatility that's shown from those yearto-year results and even year within year variation, especially since we've got a big budget, a big
portion of it is ongoing expenses, it seems like we ought to keep our planning based on a lower

amount, rather than hewing closely to what is, after all, a volatile measure for our year-to-year and
mid-term financial planning.
So I'm just asking if, in our thinking about our budgeting methodology, we couldn't look at a way
that would hopefully avoid this swerve we're having to do mid-year and over the mid-term
financial plan, at least.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we have looked at a more pessimistic forecast. As you saw the
forecast in there, they provide an optimistic, pessimistic, and baseline. It has been the practice here
to use the baseline. Two years ago, we felt the baseline was too high so we used the pessimistic
forecast. The fiscal policy about using their forecast does not allow us a lot of flexibility in that.
And there's not necessarily a-- it's not necessarily bad, in my opinion, that it doesn't allow us a lot
of flexibility, since we don't have an economist on staff to be able to perform those functions.
So we did use a more pessimistic forecast last time, in 2017, I believe it-- was it '17? And then
there was some criticism that we were using too pessimistic of a forecast. There was one person
sitting across who was very excited we were using more pessimistic forecasts. So there was a point
of contention about that. I think last year when we were able to add a lot of projects back,
everybody was very happy about that, and when we have to reduce.
I think that this year it's coupled by a couple things. One is not only do we have to make a
significant reduction, but our fare revenue forecasts were off significantly. And the biggest thing
that drives that was ridership. The second thing that drives our fare revenue, which is $14 or $15
million of that shortfall we have to solve for, is that our allocation that we had forecast between
the Base and FasTracks was off significantly, meaning a greater percentage of our revenue is now
being driven by FasTracks, and therefore we have to allocate the revenue to FasTracks than we are
to Base. So that was a large part of our correction that we had to make for 2020 was allocating
more of the total fare revenue based on the fact that we're seeing the University of A line grow
significantly. And those revenues tend to come in at $10.50 a fare versus $3.00, which is what we
say more typically on bus.
So my advice was, I think we just keep it the way it is. But I think the Board is open. I mean, the
Board has the prerogative to change that at any time, how they want us to do those forecasts. Based
on your previous comments, we did do a survey of agencies that are in a group called TFLEx
(Transit Finance Learning Exchange) with us, which is where all the financial people get together
and have discussions about these type of things, ridership, fare revenue, sales and use tax. The
majority of those individuals do use a third party to forecast. And we were both surprised that they
used universities to do that forecasting.
There are two agencies that don't, that do it in-house. And one of them's moving to a outside
forecasting entity because of the criticisms of forecasting in-house. So forecasting is an art as well
as a science. And I think that's the problem. I think we'd see those adjustments whether we did it
in-house or whether we did it externally. And also, what methodology to use is going to have
inherent fluctuations in it already.

SHELLEY COOK: I was requesting if you could look specifically at something that's more stable,
like a moving average, as what we would use for potentially our target. So that's my request for
the future, just to have a more stable outlook. And as we see changes based upon these year-toyear volatile increases or decreases, we would be less affected by them, or we could use them for
one-time expenditures, or as we build our fund balance, maybe we can use that to absorb the
changes to a greater extent. So thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I think if the Board wants to look at that, we would entertain that.
That would be part of the fiscal policy discussion we had, where we could make an amendment to
that to change that methodology.
KEN MIHALIK: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. You know, it feels like this is an eternal committee
meeting. I mean like this keeps going forever and ever. But nonetheless, it's just a philosophical
comment.
I really agree with Director Cook. I've been here a long time, eternally also. It seems like I've been
here forever. And it's kind of crazy to me that we have to scramble. We have to scramble because
the forecast turns out to be inaccurate and we have to cut service. It's like there needs to be some
kind of cushion, in my opinion. It just makes sense. I am not a fiscal expert. But there needs to be
some kind of cushion that says, well, we're not going to go with exactly what they say so that
there'll be a cushion.
And I like the idea of Director Cook's that having some kind of average. I'm not a mathematician,
but I think hitching our wagon to this volatile thing is foolish. I'm kind of sick of scrambling
around. I've been here a long time. And it's like we keep having to scramble just because the
forecast is somewhat off. And to me, that doesn't make sense. It just common sense. It doesn't
make sense. So I would really love for there to be a discussion about a different way for us to deal
with these forecasts that give us more of a cushion.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if I just might respond to that. One of the things we have been trying
to do to deal with it is put more money into your reserves. However, there's been reluctance on
everyone's part to put as much as we wanted to in the past, because we want to spend it on service
and we want to spend it on projects, right? So just keep that in mind. There are ways of dealing
with it but there has been reluctance to do some of that.
And I think if you-- one of the problems we have is our largest funding source is the most volatile
funding source that is available out there. So we have to take that into consideration when we look
at forecasts, also.

JUDY LUBOW: And I understand all of that. But it's getting old. It's just getting old, scrambling
like this. It doesn't seem sensible to me, frankly.
And that brings me to another point, which is that I would love to suggest that we have a Study
Session about the budget. And the Study Session would be basically what's weak in our budget,
are our expenditures really matched well to our revenue? And I think it really came up for me
when I realized that we couldn't balance the budget after 2025 or '26. And I thought, well, the
problem isn't then, the problem's now. If we can't budget it then, we're doing something wrong
now.
And we don't have those deep discussions typically, in my opinion. And I would really love to
dive deeply into what works in our budget. Like for instance, is FasTracks' O&M killing us? I
don't know. I don't know. I should know, perhaps. But I'm doing the best I can. But that's an issue.
And there's-- we increased the salary with this contract. It was a great idea. I hope we can afford
it. I mean, we're having trouble living within our means. And that means I'd like to know more
about just basically are our services too expensive for us, in terms of the revenue that we're getting
in? It feels very tight, always tight. There's never enough money.
And what's interesting is that there was the Great Recession, 2007 and in '08, but we haven't been
in the Great Recession. We haven't had a recession. And we're always struggling. Something
doesn't feel right to me. And I would like a deeper discussion about what's happening with our
budget. So that's my suggestion.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if I might just say to that. So one of the things that the Reimagine
RTD is designed is to look at what services we are providing, what makes sense from the Board's
perspective as to what we're providing, and then what are the revenues available to provide that
service, and then what are the revenue sources that we need to be looking at if we want to provide
the service we want to provide, right?
So you're right, we are providing more services now and spending more money than we have.
That's why we're having to reduce it. And that's been a consistent problem. But I think one of the
things we're trying to accomplish-- and Dave can correct me if I'm wrong-- but we're trying to see
what is the service that we can provide and then what is the service we want, where do we want to
be in the future and what do we have to do to get there?
Because as we just talked about with the long range plan, we can't get there from here the way
we're going. And you saw that. We couldn't even maintain their assets we have now past 2026.
So yes, we do have a problem. And I think one of the things we're hoping to really deeply dive
into is through Reimagine are those issues. Now we can also have those workshops separately. We
have five budget workshops scheduled in 2020.
JUDY LUBOW: I would like a Study Session. I don't consider it a workshop. I want the Board to
be discussing what I consider, to me, a major problem, that I think our services go beyond what
we can afford easily, which is sad to me because we all want to give greater services, even than
what we're doing.

KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Lubow. I think we're going to get into that topic here
later this evening.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, good.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska, you are next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Thank you so much, Heather, and your team.
One of the things that stuck out to me is the fare box revenue. So I don't obviously have those
numbers in front of me, but they're nowhere near the 30% required by the state legislature. I think
it's 30. I used to think it was 20 but isn't it supposed to be about-- well, even if it's 20%, what are
we required by the state for fare box revenue?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the fare box is 30 something percent and the industry standard is 20.
Remember, that's not just fare revenue against total. It's a calculation that goes into both of that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I know, the crazy calculation.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we're closer to 50% right now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: For fare box revenue?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. Per the state's calculation. So we far exceed that 30%.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And so what the state-- can you reconcile that for me, what you have
of 16% and then 8%?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So let me-- so I have a paper that I've written that I hand out a lot
to show how those calculations are done.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I don't want the calculation.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Just explain to me the difference between the 50-plus percent that you give
to the state and the numbers that we're really dealing with. Because I mean, if our actual fare box
revenue is declining, declining, declining, and we all know that we want to improve our fare box
revenue, we're back into another problem.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the 16% calculation is just the calculation of fare that we receive
against total revenue. The fare box recovery looks at what your operating expenditures are. Some
include depreciation, some don't. And there's a series of calculations that go into that that you
reduce off the number of operating expenditures, and then you take the fare revenue number
against that operating expenditure number.

So the number we gave you tonight, the 16%, is just the fare revenue we're estimating against total
revenues, not the fare revenue we're collecting against expenditures calculated a variety of
different ways. So there's different calculations that goes into the industry standard, where we're
about 23% fare box recovery. And we're about 50 something percent on the federal calculate-- or
on the state calculation. But those are two totally different calculations than the number we gave
you. We just gave you what is the fare revenue against total revenues that we're estimating. And
that's the 16%.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then does that still reflect the reduction in ridership, I guess?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. That is with the reduction in ridership. That's why we've had to
lower those fare box revenues.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Forecast.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: For our forecast, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. So there's so many factors that go into ridership. And I think one of
them is safety. And we know that safety is a priority for RTD, right? And it's in our mission
statement. And I know that we're-- I mean, I can hear this, read it, all of that, the budgets and so
forth. I'm wondering, though, when it comes to safety if perhaps we could find an FTE for safety- I think that would be Mike Meader's department, right-- to do something internally for analyzing
big data so that they can see and predict where things are maybe going to happen so that they can
get ahead of it before things happen, rather than the secondary or tertiary kind of responses, which
may improve our ridership. I'm not sure. But that's just a suggestion. And I think I feel crazy even
mentioning it, because I know what our budget shortfall is. But you know, safety is a priority for
us. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK Thank you Director Folska. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Having been responsible for doing sales tax estimates for a
whole lot of years, I think the Leeds folks do a very good job. If we were to come up with a
proposal to do three- or five-year smoothing and in good years put the money into a reserve
account, you're just creating a target for one-time expenditures that will be focused on throughout
the year without doing it on an annual budgeting basis. And so you're going to end up wasting
money on projects where the money should have been used to complete the FasTracks project, or
whatever the case might be.
So I think we should move carefully in terms of saying that our current method of using the Leeds
estimates is not satisfactory. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's actually Director Pessimist.
[CHUCKLING]

I would like to go back to that, go back to that very cautious forecasting mode. I think we were
much safer, and those who were critical of that were on the wrong track. I think it's a safer position
for us, and I wish we would go back to that, where whatever the forecast is, whatever the crystal
ball supposedly says, cut it by 25%.
OK. Throwing a figure out at [INAUDIBLE].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: About give me a heart attack there.
NATALIE MENTEN: But you know what I'm talking about, Heather. Because it is the same thing.
We project and we project and we project, and then somehow people are missing it and just
shocked when, op, didn't happen the way the magic ball, magic crystal, whatever, globe, said.
So I just wanted to comment on that, that I appreciated when we did that back whenever, whatever
year that was. That's it. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Forgive me. So rather than coming in with a moving average or something
that's a lot more slower changing, Director Broom at one point had talked about coming in a little
under what we think the forecast is, for example, and then if we have an overage using that to add
to the fund balance or for one-time expenditures. So I'd be open to a change like that, too, just
something that gets us off of trying to use the precise number they come in with, which we all
know is a little bit of a crystal ball. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Heather, I know we-- so let me take you to the right page.
It's packet page 116, which is temporary curtail of service based system. I know it's a guess of that
$90 million.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: $9 million.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Or 9, it says that, yeah. $9 million. And my concern is that we're attaching
the reduction in service to saving money. And I think one of the things we've had conversations
about is addressing the six-day mandates, operator shortages, a number of different things. And so
I just want to be clear that that's our-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. I mean, I just took advantage of the situation since we were having
that conversation. But as we mentioned and we'll talk about later, this was well in the works, our
proposal to put together about the issues we have around mandating and service months and
months before we got the forecast a couple weeks ago.
So our first priority is that. If it happens to produce savings with that, then we would like to apply
it towards a shortfall. But as I mentioned, since I don't have a clue what that number is, I'm just

estimating it, we'll be solving for that, a portion of it probably. So it won't be that number, because
there's a lot of work to do between now and whenever that might occur.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I won't spend too much time on it, because we have-- this is a
topic, one of the updates. I just wanted to bring it up as a flag and something we should consider
and to think about. I just don't want us to get into a point where we're having reduction in services
and then we're never adding that service back-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --because it's been attached to saving money.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Understood. Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chairman Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think that last point is one that is worthy
of some clear restatement so that we all understand that.
Discussion about service reductions that we have to embrace and we'll get to later on this evening
are necessarily related to the fact that we have a horrible workforce problem. We are short of
operators. Being short of operators has caused us to consider difficult decisions relative to service
reductions. It's not simply an excuse somehow to save money and balance the budget, which we
can do in other ways. The fact that we're mandating people six days a week for the past four years,
hundreds and hundreds of people having to be mandated, just to meet most of the schedule, not
even all of the schedule, is something that is a major problem. We have to be responsive to our
workers. We have to be responsive to our partners in this process. And we have to be able to deliver
to our constituents what we promised to deliver and not just what we hope someday we might be
able to deliver.
So I just want to clarify that point and amplify and confirm that this is not an exercise in saying,
oh, well, here's how we're going to save money, we'll reduce service. That's not the issue. There's
an ancillary relationship, yes. But the purpose behind looking at service reductions is the fact that
we have a workforce problem. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We will move on to next year's performance measures.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So with that, I'll turn it over to Jannette to walk you through the
performance measures. We do bring this forward to you right before we adopt the budget so you
know that these are the performance measures we're trying to shape the budget around and
hopefully achieve with the budget that we're proposing. So with that, I'll turn it over Jannette.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: We're bringing these performance measures to the Board for review
and/or discussion. Essentially we're populating three KPIs, key performance indicators, with data
and recommending a change in one of them, specifically 6.2% increase in ridership. We're looking
at a 0.8% increase in 2020 over 2019. This is based on actuals through August.

Goals, KPI 6.3, fare revenue and total operating revenue, we're looking at a 2.5% increase over
2019. And total oper-- in fare revenue, I'm sorry-- 2.5% increase in fare revenue. And then for
operating revenue, an increase of 2.3%.
And then finally, we are recommending a change to KPI 6.5. Here we want to add light rail
operators to this measure and track their vacancies, as well as headcount within authorization. Are
there questions or discussion?
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you I kind of have a generic question about if we change the performance
standard to what the data or the prognosis is going to be, what are we doing with that performance
standard? Is it a goal, or is it just we're going to meet what is expected anyway? I'm a little confused
about what the point is.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the goal is what we're trying to achieve. So we do adjust it based on
the circumstances we find as going into for the next year. Again, doesn't mean we'll meet that goal.
We had the goal last year that we were very optimistic and we didn't meet that goal. So it is a goal
that we're trying to achieve, but it is based on current knowledge of what's going on right now.
JUDY LUBOW: Because when I think of like increasing ridership, I would think of a concerted
plan to increase ridership, whereas what this is is, well, we think it's going to increase that amount
so let's put it in there. It's confusing.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: What we do is we look at ridership. We look at where we are now. We
look at the fact that we have an assumption that the N line's going to open next year. We've made
some assumptions around that opening so that we could do projections. And so based on that, we
have these estimates.
So we did the same thing-- we do the same thing every year. So for instance, '19, we had an
estimate of when the G line was going to open, that was going to be January. It didn't open until
May, so we didn't meet our goal for this year. But we had the best information we had at the time
to set that goal. We are not projecting increase in ridership on the base system. We are expecting
that to remain flat, hopefully not decreasing but remaining flat. And then we have some
expectations about ridership around the N line.
JUDY LUBOW: So it seems to me that what it is is not a goal of we want to get it higher so much
as this is what we we're expecting, let's see if we meet it. That's what it represents.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, it's a forecast of where we think we're going to be.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Because if we're going to increase it, we have to do something
differently than what we're doing now.

JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I don't see anyone else.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, if you have any other questions or changes, it's going to be brought
back next month for approval. So if you could get those to us sooner than later, that would be great.
Oh, [INAUDIBLE].
KEN MIHALIK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: When you bring those back next month, will you have the third quarter actuals?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We doing third quarter next?
PEGGY CATLIN: Because it seems to me that particularly with on-time performance, we are not
going to be reflecting quite as nice a picture in the third quarter.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Right. Truthfully, we may not be able to report the third quarter until
January. December proves to be a little too early for us. We need that, the quarter closes. Let me
look at it. But we will shoot for December to report on September. But if we are unable to, we
would bring the third quarter into January's meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Seems [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: OK. And now we're on to August's financial status.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So in essence of time, I'm just going to ask if anybody has any questions.
[INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Thank you. In light of us getting the family performance report, the
individual ridership performance with cost and boarding revenues and then a subsidy after the
calculation, and as we move into Reimagine RTD, and into the discussion we'll be having in later
on about service and what are we going to do with the mandates, and I think there is some financial
parts to that, too, not just the employee, myself. What I'm wondering is when we look at the 2019
numbers, and we're looking here as an example at our monthly financial status, we've got all of
our bus put in together, the rail, the light rail lines are broken out, the commuter, can we get a
unaudited report much sooner than we have in the past to give us the breakdown of the buses?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we're going to attempt-- because we know everything's going on and
we're going to probably need that information to help feed the Reimagine-- as I have tried to
commit to in the past, we are going to try to get that done in the May time frame. So now, might

not be perfect information. It may get revised later on. But we're going to make an attempt to do
that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Boy, that's a five-month-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Right. But the problem is is that that exercise is extremely labor
intensive. It's mostly manual. And so what we've typically done is waited for the audit financials.
And I know you're saying do it without the audit financials. But we have to at least wait till second
close. Because so much changes by the time December ends and that first close that we do in the
February time frame. So even if we did it without the audited financials, it would still be-- you
know, we can take a look at that but it's going to be very difficult. But I understand where you're
coming from. Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So when we have these very serious discussions about what routes
are going to take priority over another one and where do we shift, do we go stick with our
somewhat regional service versus concentrated, yeah. I mean, we all know that that's going to be
very helpful information.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So let me take that back and talk to both the finance team and service
planning and see. Because we do understand that that would be useful information to help feed
that discussion on Reimagine.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sooner rather than later.
NATALIE MENTEN: Because what I mean, I'm just going to say, you know, we start to have to- nobody likes to have to go to their constituents and say, I don't have as much of a problem
anymore, but go to them and say, we've got some serious, serious, serious problems, and we've got
to cut. But we really have to be honest with ourselves and can't just say, you know, that line kind
of looks like it sucks. We have to have some hard data. So without being-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Let's take that back and see. And again, as long as we preface it that it's
not audited maybe information and things like that, that might be helpful. It's just would be
extremely difficult to run it twice, once with unaudited and once with audited, just because of the
amount of time it takes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. But we'll look at it.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. I don't see anybody else. And we'll do the same for the fiscal
sustainability update. I don't think there's anything new to report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, there's nothing new.

KEN MIHALIK: It's just a requirement. So there's nothing new to report on that. And we'll just go
to the LiVE program update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I just wanted to update, as of yesterday, I believe we have 1,300
approved people with LiVE cards. So making progress.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Any questions on the LiVE update? I don't see any.
OK. We will go on to other matters. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to remind people, tomorrow we have 50th
anniversary agency barbecues that Elati, at 711 building, at Mariposa, and at Rio Court. So please,
if you can make one of those, that would be terrific. And the Citizens Advisory Committee, an
important part of our deliberative process and our administration here at the RTD, has dinner with
the Board of Directors and the senior leadership team here tomorrow night, right in this room,
from 5:00 until 7:00 PM. So please remember that. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
KEN MIHALIK: You're welcome. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And maybe I missed this, but were we going to cover the fiscal
sustainability update? Was that done earlier when I happened to be still out in Jeffco? Or did we
skip-KEN MIHALIK: The previous item?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: I just said that there was no update and it's just a requirement-NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
KEN MIHALIK: --that it gets reported on.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, I missed that. So what I would like to ask, I was tied up in jury selection
at the beginning of this meeting and that's why I was late, all day long. No, otherwise, I would
have been gone for five days. Yeah. OK. So what I wanted to state is that I definitely would have
stuck with my trend over the last many years and been a No vote on adoption of the 20-- on the
mid-term financial plan, or the old days we called it, but anyway-- The option is, I talked to Rolf,
and I could either ask to be recorded as a No vote tonight, because I was in court, I could not have
my cell phone on, could not listen in and be recorded, or I will pull it from-- ask for it be pulled
from the consent agenda. And I'm either fine with either way. But I'm bringing it up.
KEN MIHALIK: So is there any objection to recording her vote as a No this evening? No
objection. OK. So it will be recorded as a No. Director Menten will be a No for the mid-term
financial plan.

NATALIE MENTEN: That's right. OK. That's the only comment I had. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to say that I was privileged to
attend the 25th anniversary two Thursdays ago and was able to go and have a lot of barbecue with
both the bus department in Aurora, and I went to the body shop and then I went to the information
group. And it really was a wonderful experience to sit and talk with the employees about what's
going on and what, you know. So I just want to say thank you for having the barbecue.
My only question in request is that that barbecue be held through all shifts, not just 10 to 2. Because
we have employees who work early morning, late night. And I want to make sure that everybody
gets that same goodie during the day. I will be attending as many in the next one, as well. But if
we could make sure that all shifts get the barbecue, I would appreciate it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just wanted to also remind people that RTD is presenting-- I assume it's
Dave and Doug-- at the TLRC, the Transportation Legislation Review Committee, on Monday
morning from 9 to 12. I forgot to ask Sherry, I meant to before, if we'll have a schedule. Do you
know, Pauletta, so that people can come in? I guess it might be a question for Brandeberry
McKenna.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. We'll see what we can find and get to you guys.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think they would really like to have the support of the Board
members that can come out at the Capitol.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, General Manager.
DAVID GENOVA: I'm showing it at 9 to 10 for us. But we'll verify and get that out to the Board.
KEN MIHALIK: 9 to 10 on Monday.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I think we are up against a five-minute break. We'll call this meeting adjourned.
[GAVEL BANGS]
Next meeting is November 12th.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

