Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

September 15, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on
September 15, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 2nd Vice-Chair Cohen, Secretary
Malpiede, Treasurer Bagley, and 1st Vice-Chair
Tayer (via phone)
Subject:

Other Board Members
Present:

Directors Deadwyler, Tobiassen (via phone)

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington

Call to Order:

I.

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:00
p.m.

September Board Meeting Agenda review
General Manager Washington introduced this item. He indicated that all the
items on the unanimous consent had passed committee. He also provided
an explanation of the funding request for the Wadsworth parking structure.
He shared that the parking structure has always been a part of the
FasTracks plan but was not part of the West Corridor budget. We have
used up the part of eligible COP funds but this structure is not eligible for
COP funds. Director Cohen added more explanation around the type of
things that might qualify for COPS funds. We will be transferring monies
from excess funds from the Elati LRT maintenance facility. The $1.4M cost
indicated is part of the accounted for $14M and is not an addition to.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
approve moving the September Board
Meeting Agenda to the full Board for
approval.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5
Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent



RESOLUTION NO. ______ SERIES OF 2011, NORTH METRO SEGMENT 1
COMMUTER RAIL PROJECT PROPERTY ACQUISITION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution
certifying properties as necessary for construction of the North Metro
Segment 1 Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all
requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.



Boulder Junction – Design / Build Contract Award
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to
award the development of the Boulder Junction TOD Project (the
“Project”) to the successful design/build team of Adolfson & Peterson
Construction and Pedersen Development Company, including award of a
design/build contract to Adolfson & Peterson, in an amount not to
exceed $7,145,816, and authority to negotiate and execute all additional
documents necessary for the development of the Project, including
transfer of interests in the property. Funding for this project is included in
the 2011 Amended Budget for the City of Boulder/RTD intermodal
Facility Project.



Authorization of RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the
“Policy”), attached.



Execution of 2012 Option with Global Transportation for the provision of
Access-a-Ride Service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee, to amend the existing contract between RTD and Global
Transportation for the provision of Access-a-Ride paratransit services in
order to incorporate an option for the provision of Access-a-Ride service
for the period January 1, 2012 thru December 31, 2012. This contract
amendment will be for one year in an amount not to exceed $6,205,151.
This will conclude our 5 year contract with Global Transportation. The
combined total amounts for this contract, including all option years, shall
not exceed $24,991,088 for the five year period. In addition, RTD will
reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in amounts estimated to total
approximately $2,457,532 for the initial three year period and
$4,445,115 for the five year period.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5


January 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed January 2012
Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.

 Recommended Action
 Renaming of East Corridor Colorado Boulevard Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the name 40 th and Colorado Station for the
station on the East Corridor called Colorado Boulevard Station in the
Environmental Impact Statement documents. This recommendation is
consistent with the current Board policy on station naming.


Authorization to Award the Design Build Contract for the Wadsworth
Parking Structure
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to enter into a Design/Build contract
with Swinerton Builders not to exceed $14,000,000. This contract is
for the design and construction of the RTD FasTracks West Rail Line
Wadsworth Parking Structure. Funding for this project is included in the
2011 FasTracks budget for the West Corridor Parking Garages, and was
provided through the Certificates of Participation (COP) issued in 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
transfer of $1,415,319 from the Light Rail Maintenance Facility project
to the West Corridor Parking Garages project to fund project elements
that are not eligible to be funded through the COP.



II.

New On-vehicle Advertising Opportunities
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the General Manager or his designee be authorized to implement a pilot
program to allow one light rail vehicle to be completely wrapped with an
RTD advertisement at no cost to RTD to determine the viability of
permitting this type of advertising on the rail fleet. In addition, it is
recommended that the current on-vehicle advertising contract with
Lamar Transit Advertising be amended to permit the installation of
“headliner” advertising signage above the windows on RTD buses.

Update from General Manager Oversight and Performance Committee
General Manager Oversight and Performance Committee Chair Bagley
provided a status from this committee. Twelve Board members responded
to the Q2 online survey. They will be reviewing these results and discussing
if they will do this survey on a semi-annual basis rather than quarterly. The
Committee will also discuss next steps for the General Manager’s 2011
annual evaluation.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5

III.

Update on Paperless Packets
Director Tobiassen provided an update on the paperless packet project. He
shared the project is moving ahead. We received bids from three vendors
that the evaluation team is working to narrow down and provide
recommendations to the Board. We plan to do a webinar demo with the
second vendor this upcoming Wednesday, and set up a training environment
on the IPADS with a targeted rollout date to the Board for the IPADS in midOctober. The plans are to go live with the full application in January.
Director Cohen and Bagley thanked Director Tobiassen for his perseverance
and hard work to advance this effort.

IV.

Payment for Subscription to Newsletter
This was a Director McMullen issue that he had asked to bring before the
Executive Committee. Chair Kemp asked that the existing policy is brought
back to the Executive Committee for the next meeting.

V.

Other Matters
Director Bagley inquired on the waivers for the access-a-ride users. General
Manager Washington shared that while there were approximately 120
access-a-ride clients who are no longer eligible based on the installation of
new technology software, the ¾ mile will also be affected by our service
changes. It is not prudent to make these waivers at this time but his team
will continue to study the matter to look for options. Director Deadwyler
stated she think it is fair for the 120 users who got dropped because of our
software change to be grandfathered but she would consider if we did a
letter informing other potential users going forward.
General Manager Washington shared a status of the DIA issues and the
impact on RTD. He stated that according to Kim Day, DIA, the station will
be ready as expected.
Director Deadwyler expressed concern about the DBE/s who has received a
letter of intent from DTP but no work. She asked what could be done.
General Manager Washington indicated they will be put to work when the
work schedule proceeds. Director Cohen reminded the team of words from
the General Manager in the past where he had stated the DBE’s should not
use the letter of intent as a line of credit. Director Deadwyler further
elaborated on her concerns. She stated that the DBE’s understood this was
not a line of credit. However, some of them were worried because as time
goes along and the expected start time is delayed, this might cut into the
length of the timeline they were expecting to do the work. She also
expressed it was appropriate that DTP provide some communications to the
DBE community around the source of the delays and expected changes in
the timeline.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5
VI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:50 p.m.

