2025-10-06
Performance Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Welcome back, everybody. Monday, October 6 Performance Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 8:33 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting
to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting,
will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office, at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Vince Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Lynn Guissinger. Vice Chair Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am online.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin. She may not be with us right now, but she may be joining us later.
Please advise me if you see her hop on, Mr. Kroll.
And I am Chair Michael Guzman. I am also here. I do-- let's see. I do see Director Chandler has joined us.
And I do not see anybody else present. Oh, Director Benker. Hi. There you are. I see you. Good morning,
everybody.
All right. I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding
any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you
wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your hand virtually or press star 9 on your
phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you
would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com.

Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised at this time?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this
time, I see no hands raised in desire of providing public comment, and there were no emailed comments in
advance as well.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you so much for that information. With no participants in the queue, we
will close the public comment period.
There are no recommended actions for our committee today. There are a few discussion items. There are
two that we have listed on the agenda. The first is a discussion which relates to the agency's 2025-2026
strategic initiatives. And the second relates to our regular deep dives into key organizational performance
metrics.
The 2025 strategic initiatives. I'd like to hand the floor now to General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson,
as well as Chief of Staff John McKay, to present this item. Are there any questions? Oh, sorry, it's yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Good morning, everyone. Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive
Officer here at RTD.
As this Board is aware, we undertook, back in August of 2021, the initiative of a strategic plan. And in doing
so, the intent behind the strategic plan was to ensure that we had a North Star in reference to aligning staff
as well as the Board toward a common goal. With that as a backdrop, quite naturally, with a multi-year
strategic plan, we informed our decisions relative to what we would focus on with each year, and we were
able to garner an understanding what those areas of focus would be by virtue of garnering input via our
community value survey, our customer value survey, as well as our employee surveys.
During the course of the year, we've been focused-- during the course of the past couple of years, we've
been focused on a myriad of different elements, primarily, as you know, back to basics, people power, a
welcoming transit environment, and, most recently, as of last year, focusing on community and customer
connections. With that as the introduction, I'm going to yield the floor to Mr. McKay, who presented to you
last gathering of this committee, whereby there were inputs relative to the strategic plan, more specifically
by virtue of our customer and community and employee surveys.
So with that, I will yield the floor to Mr. McKay to introduce you to the initiatives upon which we are focusing
on for 2025-2026. Mr. McKay, the floor is yours, sir.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much for the introduction. John McKay, Chief of Staff.
As GM/CEO Johnson said, we will be covering the '25-'26 strategic initiatives and how those were formed.
We'll be covering the '25-'26 performance cycle, the initiatives themselves, and some next steps.
Regarding the '25-'26 performance cycle, RTD for staff uses a performance management cycle wherein
goals are planned at the beginning of the performance year, which happens around this time of year. We
monitor performance during the course of the year and review performance at the end of the year to
determine how staff has contributed toward the goals and mission of the agency.
Just to tie this back to the strategic plan, this is our strategic planning framework that is basically a
representation of the strategic plan itself. It starts with the vision, mission, values as determined by the

Board. Then we go to the strategic priorities. These are the pillars used in determining how best to deploy
resources and how best we can fulfill the vision, mission, values of the organization.
The strategic initiatives and associated tactics are what we're talking about today. These are, as GM/CEO
Johnson introduced, these are year-over-year or multiyear initiatives designed specifically to address some
low areas of performance, as noted in the strategic priorities and as measured by performance data and
the surveys, the customer, community, and employee surveys.
And how this all affects every employee of the organization, the goal eligible managers of the organization
design tactics and goals based around the strategic initiatives and then filter those down through the
organization so that each individual employee is connected to the strategic plan. And again, this is the
strategic planning pyramid in full.
The long-term goals of the agency are captured in the strategic priorities-- sorry, the agency performance
scorecard that is the very center, both geographically in the strategic planning book, and in concept. The
scorecard is the center of the strategic plan. And then in an annual scorecard, we capture the strategic
initiatives and we'll show a snapshot of that a little bit later.
This is what the agency performance scorecard looks like. This is what we refer to as the blue scorecard.
This captures all of the metrics that lead up to or that trickle up to the vision, mission, values. This is how
we determine how we're doing as an organization, determining the success outcomes of the strategic plan.
And this is the annual scorecard. In the last year, we referred to it as the green scorecard. And it captured
the '24-'25 strategic initiatives of back to basics, people power, welcoming transit environment, and
customer and community connections. And there were four strategic initiatives and each one had an
associated tactic or tactics, specifically asset management, employee recruitment, employee retention,
employee security, public security, customer experience, and community outreach. And these were the
tactics that were designed specifically to improve performance in those areas.
Moving on to the '25-'26 strategic initiatives and how those were formed, we designed tactics based on a
few different criteria. So on the far left, you see the three overlapping blue bubbles in a Venn diagram, any
place on that Venn diagram where two of those bubbles touch is an area ripe for developing a tactic. So if
something was below 75% in a survey and it had a favorable response decline year over year, that was an
area that could be examined if there was a key driver. And a below 75% favorable survey response, that's
another area. Especially if all three of them are true, then that's certainly something to take a look at, and
I'll speak to key drivers here in a moment.
Or alternatively, if there was a survey response that was below 50% that was by itself a determinant factor
to determine whether that was a good tactic for us to deploy in 2025-'26. And lastly, and sort of new to this
organization, is a key strength to maintain. So we saw that in our Community Survey results that there's a
diagram that I'll get to in a moment, but we saw there was no room for improvement according to the-- Let
me put a pause in that statement. Not that there was no room for improvement, that-- Well, let me get to
the diagram and I'll explain better there.
We looked at the survey results year over year, and this is just a snapshot. I won't go through all of them.
For the committee members who are interested and for the members of the public who are interested, our
survey results are posted on the performance dashboard website, or web page, on RTD's website. This is
just a snapshot of one of those. And we can see on the right hand side that people indicated in the last year
that they felt safe and secure while waiting on the train at a rate of 68% for rail. That's 62% for light rail and

72% for commuter rail. So we saw that because the favorable response for the light rail was below 75%,
and I'll show this key driver analysis in the next slide here, we saw that that was an area that we could focus
efforts in this year.
And again, this is the key driver analysis specifically for bus, but we've done one for bus, both commuter
rail and light rail, and also for some of our community surveys as well. And this is a ranking of importance
of characteristics of service. Included here are frequency of service, hours of operation, bus, train stops
conveniently located, et cetera, et cetera. We ask individuals, as they're responding to our surveys, to rank
in terms of importance their feelings about service characteristics of RTD. We've seen through the customer
and community surveys that frequency is by far and away the most important factor for service.
And as I mentioned before, with respect to the Community Survey, we had only strengths to maintain. We
did not have areas of opportunity. So it shows that we are deploying our resources in a way that meets the
demands of the public. And you can see here that we're not meeting the mark in terms of personal security
while waiting for the bus and the train. And that's one of the aspects of the strategic initiatives that we're
going to be looking at this year.
In total, these were the areas that we found, scrolling back quickly to this diagram. So of these service
characteristics and tactics that we determined were areas that we could take a look at in 2025-26, these
were the very specific metrics associated with those things. So related to service delivery-- and I won't read
through all of these over the next three slides-- frequency of service, on-time performance of vehicles, that
bus and light rail services operate when they need them, et cetera. These were the metrics that we
determined that we wanted to improve over the next year.
And again, this relates to the Community Survey. These were strengths to maintain rather than areas of
opportunity, including that RTD provides access to places of employment, reduces traffic congestion, and
provides affordable transportation options. And again, the Community Value Survey was mailed out to a
random sampling of households within the Denver Metro area. And we find, at RTD, that it's important,
even for those folks who don't utilize our transit services, it's important to instill value from the community
in everything that we do. So we need to make sure that for the 90-plus percent of people who don't regularly
engage with RTD, that they still feel like we deliver value to the community.
And here, without further ado, here are the four strategic initiatives for 2025-26, which include enhancing
public trust, building a better RTD, service excellence, and customer and community connections. And
associated tactics are public trust, security perception, professional development-- and that's in terms of
staff-- advancing infrastructure, service delivery, police visibility, transit value, and fostering mobility. And
those defined-- I won't read through these either, but these are also included in the Board report for this
presentation.
And as far as next steps, just grounding us back in the strategic planning process here. This is the strategic
plan itself. We are capturing these initiatives in a scorecard that will flash up on the screen momentarily.
But in early Q4 2025, which is right about now, we will be conducting some internal and external
communications regarding the '25-'26 strategic initiatives, both internally and with the public. And then we
have already disseminated the annual scorecard for all employees for the '25-'26 employee performance
cycle.
In the longer term, we do intend to convene regularly, quarterly strategic initiative meetings among senior
managers and the leadership team and directors of departments and divisions, so that we can determine

progress against the strategic initiatives for this year. And then regular employee performance check-ins to
make sure that they are in alignment with the strategic initiatives and the strategic plan itself.
And at this point, I will navigate-- I'm using one screen here, so you have to bear with me for one moment.
I have to go to our scorecard itself. And is that showing up on screen?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, John.
JOHN MCKAY: OK, thank you. So this is the scorecard. It is a burgundy color this year. So we will be
referring to this as the burgundy scorecard instead of the green scorecard for this year. And this gets into
a more granular level of the initiatives, the tactics, and the projects associated with them.
So for example, for public trust, this was one of the areas in the community survey where we could see that
we received low scores or a low favorability in terms of survey responses. And this is an area we wanted
to put up front at the very top of the scorecard this year.
And just for an example, there is a project for an economic impact analysis wherein we will engage with a
consultancy to produce a robust, data-driven assessment for strategic planning, stakeholder engagement,
and public awareness regarding RTD's critical role in the region's economic prosperity and quality of life.
So in doing this, in employing this economic impact analysis, the metric that we're hoping to increase over
time are the responses to the survey the percentage of community members who agree or strongly agree
that the community's investment in transit provides value.
Again, I won't read through each and every one of these. This is available now on the strategic plan website,
and it's available in your packet as well.
But scrolling forward, we are also building a better RTD. And this is with respect to professional
development. There are some manager trainings that we are deploying in the next quarter, and also PDP
usage. That's our professional development program funds usage. So we are tracking to see whether
employees are using these funds. And we're not trying to increase it necessarily, but just tracking whether
an increase in usage of these PDP funds, if there is a corresponding increase in the percentage of
employees who agree or strongly agree that RTD provides them with the tools needed to grow their career.
Also for advancing infrastructure, this is led by our DCEO, Angel Peña. There are some infrastructure
initiatives associated with that.
Moving on to service excellence, there are some specific tactics related to journey mapping, which is an
interesting concept for this year. There are two projects that were also in place last year, during '24-'25, and
these were captured in the green scorecard from last year, including on-time terminal departures and
operated trips. There's also a tactic related to police visibility, in which Chief Martingano will be out and
conducting some Chat with the Chief events out in the public and among RTD staff. He will be deploying
bike patrols specifically along the W Line and developing a couple of Transit Police substations in different
parts of the district.
And lastly, to customer and community connections. This was a returning initiative from the last year. There
are tactics related to transit value and fostering mobility. And of particular interest to a lot of folks is the very
last one on here. It's the fare bundling. This is a process where we will be developing a market strategy to
promote ticket as fare bundling for cultural and sporting event venues, and to conduct outreach to major
venues to bolster transit utilization for high volume events. So basically, this means that if you buy a Broncos

ticket, that you could potentially use that ticket to just board the light rail vehicle after you get out of the
game.
And with that, I will stop sharing my screen and I'm happy to take any questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Directors, questions, comments?
Director Chandler had her hand raised. Go ahead.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you. Thank you, Chairman Guzman. Although I'm not a part of this
committee, I often attend. And so I appreciate it. I do have a couple of questions.
You did talk about that the survey was mailed out to random sample in the Denver area. Does that also
include some of the outlying areas? Because I think what's happening is my constituency doesn't have as
favorable an outlook as what you're presenting. And I think that's because they don't have the service that
you're talking about. So I just want to have a little bit more flavor of who received this survey so that we can
determine if this is more the Denver-centric area that's actually receiving those kinds of services.
JOHN MCKAY: Chair Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. To your point, Director Chandler, this is a survey mailed to everyone
within the Denver Metro area. And I say that not as to exclude any particular part of the district. That's all
eight counties within RTD. And this is a statistically valid sampling. They use a sampling plan and it takes
into account demographics.
And I believe there were, And you're testing my memory at this point in time, I think there were 700
households that responded to this survey. I'll have to go back and check my numbers again on that. But
the survey responses are available, as I said, on the performance dashboard website. And it does take into
account all of those within the Denver Metro area.
And as I said, I mean, this is a statistically valid sampling. So it's not an exact representation. It is a very
repeatable survey. If you to give this same survey 100 times, 95 times out of 100 you would get within a
3% plus or minus range on the survey, based on the survey responses and the end value of the people
who participated.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chandler, is that OK? Do you have something else you want to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, I wanted to add just an additional comment, if that would be
permissible.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah. Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. McKay, for your response. And, Director Chandler, thank
you for your question.
One notable element that I'd like to raise for everyone's awareness is keeping in mind that Mr. McKay did
indicate within the Denver Metro service area, that's everybody within the RTD district. And more
specifically, when we're looking at the community value survey, we are asking specific questions relative to

whether or not they've actually utilized the RTD services, because we're trying to understand what might
entice these individuals, what might be the value in which RTD services provides to this singular constituent.
So to the point that you raised, it's not just about those that are utilizing the services that may find it to be
advantageous, but it's more or less trying to ensure that we have a clear cut understanding, what might we
do as an agency to entice those individuals that may not be utilizing the service to actually try the services
Mr. McKay, is that correct?
JOHN MCKAY: That is correct. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to add that additional information.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chandler, did you have any follow up?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Not on that. I have another question. So I'll let the other Directors go and then I'll
circle back.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Well, I sure do appreciate the cooperation. Thank you. Director-- sorry, for the record,
Board Chair Julien Bouquet has joined us. Director Nicholson, you are next.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So my ears perked up, especially at the mention of integrated
event ticketing with major venues, in part because we're having a study session tomorrow on major event
ticketing. And that integration is particularly, I think, an opportunity for us.
I was hoping that maybe-- I think it was Deputy CEO Peña or GM/CEO Johnson can speak a little bit more
about where that's at in terms of the discussions that have been had so far and the prioritization within the
department and conversations that have, the work that's being taken place both with our vendor and with
some of the major venues in order to facilitate that effectively.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr.-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I will start and I'll yield the floor. So just for everybody's edification, what we're
doing tomorrow is about high volume events and how we provide service, not about ticketing specifically.
Just wanted to caveat that because there's a lot of different elements involved.
For those that have been on the Board some time know that I have been talking about leveraging high
volume events in conjunction with various venues to ease the impact relative to how we are moving people,
as well as those that may be new to transit as we move forward. There are some collective conversations
that have ensued quite naturally, when we think of where we're situated and our coordination with, say, for
instance, Denver's Visitors Bureau and things of the like. We are looking at various avenues whereby we
can be on the front end of that.
I do know, Secretary Nicholson, that you broached in the Executive Committee about legislation relative to
potential legislation, let me caveat it that way, in reference to doing this. I have had some experience in
different areas of the country relative to that. But more to the point, what's really interesting is that our Chief
Communications Officer has been broaching fare bundling and some next steps, and that will be covered
tomorrow.

So I don't want to get ahead of ourselves, but want you to know that these conversations have been ongoing
for a period of time. Just as before you were on the Board, you were interested in tap-to-pay and you came
on board, and that is something that staff had already been working on for a period of time. So wanted to
provide that color to let you know that we haven't been sitting idly by on our hands, that these have been a
myriad of activities that have been going on for a period of time.
And I think it's quite important that everybody understands that these things don't happen overnight,
especially when you're dealing with a multitude of venues, and recognizing that some may be indigenous
to Denver, some may have corporate headquarters located in different parts of the country. But these
conversations have been ongoing.
Mr. McKay, I will yield the floor to you to add additional color. I just wanted to provide those broad brush
remarks. Thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. And just to add to that the strategic planning process and the goal planning
process for employees has not kicked off yet for the '25-'26 year. That's going to be undertaken fairly soon
here. But the managers and directors of divisions are going to be taking all of the initiatives and all the
projects associated with them and building goals, personal goals based on them during the performance
planning process.
So that's how we hold accountability for these strategic initiatives, as every manager will be tackling some
of these elements. And so that's why there is a diversity of thought in all of these initiatives and they will be
filtering down through their parts of the organization to ensure that every single employee can touch on
these things in the course of their work.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I want to make sure that we point out for the record, Director Peggy Catlin
has joined us. Good morning, Director Catlin. It's good to see you.
Director Larsen, your hand was up next. Please go ahead.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. I just wanted to make sure I understood the timing and relationship between things.
These strategic initiatives are tied to the five-year strategic plan for 2021 to 2026. What is the timing again
for when we're going to start working on the subsequent strategic plan that I guess will be 2026 to 2031?
Is that starting soon?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Larsen, for the question.
If you recall, at the last Performance Committee, we came before this body with a summary scope of work
whereby that would inform our scope of work that we would leverage for our solicitation. As we move
forward, we're in the process of getting that out on the street. For all intents and purposes, there's a timeline.
And we can resurrect those materials as that timeline was provided and is included in the previous month's
Board-- sorry, the previous Performance Committee's packet that outlines the timeline.
But ultimately, what we're aiming for is to have a successor strategic plan that would come to fruition in
around August or September, so we wouldn't miss a beat. But keeping in mind, these initiatives are things
that we leverage as we are individual contributors of staff to the organization, and those would be ongoing.
And quite naturally, in the event this Board adopts a successor strategic plan, keeping in mind the work

that's been ongoing, I would doubt that we would put aside trying to build the public's trust, but we would
look at that holistically.
So I hope that basically gives you a glimpse into where we are and what we're doing as we move forward.
MATT LARSEN: Yes. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Vice Chair Gutschenritter, you are next.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. And thank you for the presentation. So as I hear from constituents,
it's oftentimes I hear that they wish there was improved information around like customer alerts,
understanding where the train and light rail is at any given time, and if there's any deviation from what was
planned, they feel like they don't know.
And so my question is I don't see that annual scorecard. Is there any opportunity to incorporate that? And
just, if there is, would love to hear about how we'd go about that or any color you can share. I would
appreciate it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. I'll start and I'll yield the floor to my colleagues.
So, Vice Chair Gutschenritter, thank you very much for that. As it relates to real time information, that's
been a challenge for this agency. I'll stand in my truth. I believe everybody's aware of that. This organization
has leveraged some antiquated technology. We have been working on this for the past year, whereby we
have removed track sensors and actually using GPS, global positioning, so we could actually ascertain
where the train is in the system. That feeds into our public information display system, the PIDs, as we call
them, going forward.
So this is a work in progress, and we anticipate it getting better as we move forward. And this has fully been
incorporated throughout the entire network, working in tandem with our Chief Information Technology
Officer, as well as with mobile technologies and those individuals within rail, we expect this to come to
fruition in short order.
I will leave it to Mr. McKay to explain to you where that's being captured quite naturally within the initiatives,
because keeping in mind, that pyramid that was shown, there's individual contributors. So there's people
that are in different work units that feed up into all of this collectively. So, Mr. McKay, I will yield the floor to
you, sir.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. Just a couple of points. With respect to the survey results, the access
to information or access to service disruption information was something that previously showed up as a
marquee thing to address. In previous surveys, it did not. That was not reflected this year. That's not to say
that's something that we're ignoring.
If you look to the scorecard under the journey mapping element, underneath service excellence, that's one
area we're tackling this. So this is an exercise in creating journey maps for individual customer profiles, so
including first-time customers, youth, limited English speakers, et cetera, that we're understanding what
interaction with the system looks like. And that will bolster communication efforts, once we understand
better what it looks like to use our services to those individuals.

Also, there is an effort to unify all of our apps. There are five different apps right now that we use, including
the MyRide app, including the-- I'm drawing a blank on our security app. Transit Watch. Thank you, Debra.
I saw you mouthing that. Transit Watch. So we have five different apps right now that there's an effort
underway to roll them all into one.
And there will be an opportunity for push notifications specifically, so that if there is a service that is being
disrupted and you are a person who is subscribed to that particular line or route, you will receive a push
notification directly to your phone. There's also an opportunity for the use of our PIDs, that's public
information displays, and our, I think they're called universal advertising totems is the correct terminology,
for those that are on platforms right now and adjacent to the rail corridors, that there is an opportunity for
our communications teams to put out information on those now that they will have direct access to the back
end of those, and we'll be able to put out better service alert information on a regular basis.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Go ahead.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yeah. Thank you for that response. I appreciate it, but I mean, I guess my
thought, based on the response, is that we all, I think, agree that this is an important area topic. And I know
that there is work in progress to ultimately address that. But I feel like what I'm hearing is the answer is,
once that work is done, we'll start measuring this. Because I understood it's in customer journeys, but I feel
like that would very much get lost in the sauce of customer journeys.
And so just from my perspective, it's important. We're not great at it. Shouldn't we be measuring it even
though there's work in progress? And so that's all I have to say.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you, Chair. To your point, we still measure all of these elements with respect to our
survey results every year. Just because something doesn't float to the top in a particular year does not
mean that we will ignore that particular area or service characteristic. This is something that we want to
make sure that all of our survey responses are continually improving.
And I think we've seen that significantly in the last couple of years, that there's been a significant uptick in
both our customer and community survey responses. There's an upward trend in nearly every single aspect
of service. I think if you look at our customer survey results from last year, in terms of commuter rail and
bus, there were 19 different aspects of service that we measure, and 19 out of 19 for bus and commuter
rail went up year over year, and 16 out of 19 for light rail went up year over year. So it goes to show that
even if something does not rise to the top of the most critical or most negative responses to our surveys
that we're still focusing effort to improve across the board.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Chair Guzman. And thank you, Mr. McKay, for that
response, and Vice Chair Gutschenritter, for the follow-up question.
I would be remiss if I didn't state that we have individuals within the organization that have specific jobs to
do. And quite naturally, just because it's not captured, as John said, in that manner, doesn't mean that
people aren't working on it collectively. And I would just use myself as an example when we've had
discussions around my goals. I have a full fledged job description in which there are responsibilities that I
have, and that goes further to the elements of the individual contributions. Because while we may be using

the strategic initiatives for individual SMART goals, there's still a job description that comprises the vast
majority of one's performance as we move forward.
So I just wanted to share that for everybody's edification, because it is critically important, and I want
anybody to think because it's not captured in the manner in which you've inquired that we're not doing
anything about it, because that's just not true. And I'm not indicating that you're saying that. But I just wanted
to take this opportunity to let you know that these are things that are being worked on in the organization
quite naturally. We are people moving people and recognizing that real time information is critically
important, as that's how we're communicating with individuals as the schedule is a commitment that we
make when we say we're going to be there, so we have to have an understanding of where we are with
that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Thank you. I am going to call on Director Peggy Catlin and find out if she
needs to ask any questions, because it looks like she's calling in and not on a regular Zoom. It's star 6 to
toggle the mute settings, just in case. Let me give it a second.
All right. Before I go another round, just a time check. It is 9:08. We only have until 10:00 this morning to
be able to complete the rest of our meeting, and the deep dive hasn't happened yet. So Directors, if you
can make your next round of comments quick, short, sweet, and to the point, so we can move on to the
next topic, I would really appreciate that. Efficiency is going to be key in our meetings right now.
I do have one thing I'd like to say before I pass the baton back. And that is, thank you for hearing both the
concern from the community and from the Directors that we need to fix the public trust. Enhancing public
trust is one of the strategic goals. Seems great. How we get there, there's a plethora of tactics, I'm sure that
we'll see come to life through this process. But at a high level, I really do appreciate seeing that.
I have one particular question. I saw it a few times. Advancing infrastructure. With respect to that, I am
concerned, because we're still working on a lot of state of good repair, that that's not also listed in
conjunction with advancing our infrastructure. What I don't want to have happen is a runaway narrative that
we're going to only focus again and be the agency of build, baby, build and neglect the work that we have
done to this point.
And so I'm not sure how that fits in here, but I want to make sure, because I didn't see anything with respect
to maintaining state of good repair for next year, that I'm not approving something without bringing that
consideration, as it's a high level concern for me for any future work that we do in approving any funding
with our joint agreements for Front Range Passenger Rail or Northwest Rail, that we don't just approve the
building, but we approve the maintenance of those infrastructure matters.
Madam CEO, your hand went up.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Chair Guzman, for your question.
Keeping in mind, when we talk about back to basics, state of good repair, transit asset management, all of
that is rooted in the infrastructure. And quite naturally, as we're talking about advancing infrastructure, that's
exactly what we're talking about, the continuity of our state of good repair, so we can make good on the
investments that have been leveraged nearly 30 years ago moving forward. So this is a continuation of
where we are and what we're doing holistically.
And so I just wanted to share that, because when we talk about advancing infrastructure, that has to do
with our facilities, i.e., how we have antiquated bus facilities and keeping in mind that we are in the process,

as we look at where we are collectively, we are looking at a new bus maintenance facility from a planning
perspective, which is currently in the regional transportation plan, for instance. Looking at light rail
modernization, as we talk about light rail level boarding, light rail signal system, a new light rail facility, all
of those things are part and parcel. That's why it's advancing infrastructure, keeping in mind we're building
on what we have, as opposed to just talking about the replacement of perhaps trackway and things of the
like. That's why this is a more expansive and inclusive term as we move forward. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. Just to add on to that, the Deputy CEO, Angel Peña, he comes from
organizations where it was important to him that-- he came from the Boston area and the Washington, DC,
Metro area, where these were older systems that he was involved with state of good repair efforts in those
areas. And he's bringing that expertise and experience with him here.
It is his philosophy that it's not good enough just to replace what was maybe not up to speed, but to make
it better as it goes forward. And so it's maybe creating a facility enhancement, in addition to making sure
that the foundation is correct, but enhancing lighting or providing other customer amenities that make it
easier for people to buy into that.
And one of the initiatives associated with building a better RTD is mapping out-- actually, I think it's under
enhancing public trust, sorry-- building trust and infrastructure specifically. He wants to map out all of the
potential service disruptions over the course of the year to give the public a better understanding of what
they can expect with respect to the service disruptions so that the speed restrictions last year that we all
encountered, the coping panels project, those are the types of things that would be built out into a roadmap
so that people will have an understanding if their particular line or route might be impacted when might that
be impacted. If there is wire replacements at the end of the E Line, let's say, that that should be in a
roadmap, and people should know well in advance that that may impact their ability to utilize transit on a
particular time frame.
So this is a holistic, future forward effort, not just on the infrastructure that we have now, but the
improvements to the infrastructure that we anticipate going forward.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I just want to be very clear. I think we need to own that narrative. And that
needs to be explicitly stated somewhere in this, because if not, what it read like to me is we're just building
more infrastructure and we're open to it. And I don't think that's what you're trying to communicate. What
you just said, that was the piece that I was missing, not understanding that as we do our state of good
repair, we're also going to advance technology and whatever additional matters we need to put in there.
We also have the fleet transition, or the Facilities and Fleet Transition Plan, other things that are coming up
that we need to have conversation on. So it makes sense that we would be advancing just how we're doing
that and not letting the train run away from us, but keeping control of that narrative and what that is is really
important. Thank you.
I'm going to return quickly to Director Chandler. She's been patiently waiting.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you again, Chairman Guzman. My question has to do, I guess kind of all
encompassing with this is that I think part of the trust factor that has been lost is not being captured
somehow, because it seems odd that the survey results are so good, yet ridership is down. So what is that

disconnect? And I don't know why. I don't know it, why there's a disconnect between the survey results are
just way up here and everyone's so happy and satisfied, but yet ridership is down.
So maybe that, for me, would be to figure out that dot that's missing. So I don't know who to ask that
question to, but I think that's something that's extremely important.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very kindly for the question, Director Chandler. And when we talk
about the connectivity, quite naturally, people are utilizing the system and they're satisfied with the system.
However, there's other people that aren't utilizing the system, and there's a myriad of factors that contribute
to that. And we are leveraging our relationships as we move forward to address that.
But more specifically, we have to keep in mind that the city of Denver central business district still has an
abundancy of office vacancies. There are people not coming into the office, and that's been the traditional
model when you look at transit usage. As I was coming of age, we used to say, we're only as good as our
last rush hour. There's not a stable rush hour any longer because people are using it on the shoulders and
off-peak times for other reasons, as opposed to just merely using it to get to their place of employment.
But leveraging the partnerships in reference to downtown Denver business partnership, or leveraging
relationships with South Denver, with commuting solutions and things of the like, those are the different
elements and avenues that we are utilizing to ensure that individuals that may have some trepidation and
angst about utilizing the system can. And back to the point where we're talking about the utilization of it for
other activities outside of traditional work access, that gets back to the point about bundling fares with an
event venue so we can introduce that to individuals that may be using it for other purposes.
So that's just a snapshot into what we're doing at a very high level. But it's a lot more in depth than that.
But just wanted to give you some perspective relative to where we are and what we're doing, just
collectively. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yeah. Yeah, if you-- just one-- sorry, my camera. There we go.
I get that. I understand that traditional things are not happening here in Denver anymore. I mean, I work
downtown. I see it. There's not as many people here on the streets at various times. But I think part of it is
that trust factor has gone. And I think if we build back up that trust that we might see ridership, regardless
of whether it's a commuter time frame or not, but ridership in general. I mean, I used to ride the light rail a
lot more because it was available, had better times, et cetera. I don't ride it as much just because of that.
So I think there's a myriad of things that we need to do. But the paramount thing for me is to build that trust
back. And if we can build that trust, I think the ridership, regardless of it's traditional or non-traditional timing,
will come back. And I just think that's something that for me is paramount. And I'm not sure how to fill that
gap in between trust and ridership. But to me, that's really where it's at. So that's just my comment. Thank
you very much.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Appreciate your comment. Thank you, Director Chandler. Director Nicholson will end
this discussion so we can move on to the next one, OK. Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I will do my best, Mr. Chair.

So as the Chair has indicated a couple of times, big decisions that come from RTD, big, big advancements,
like tap-to-pay and the integration with venues take time, can take years of work behind the scenes, and
work by previous Boards, work by previous staff members. I'm wondering, when you're looking at this kind
of evaluation, both of the agency, of the General Manager, and of staff further down, how do you factor in
the types of work that are required to deliver on something but are not the actual delivery of it?
And what I mean by that is, with regard to, for example, the Facilities and Fleet Transition Plan and the
work that's being done right now to prepare for that with one facility, that's many years out before that facility
would be delivered in practice. In looking at these sorts of processes, how do you account for effectively
measuring work being done that is years away from being delivered? How do you measure good work
versus inadequate work on something that's that far away?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Secretary Nicholson, for your
question.
So getting back to what you talked about. There are various steps as we move forward, and quite naturally
have to have milestones. You have to ensure that you're starting with a plan. And in order to ensure that
you're going to meet some of those outlying milestones, it has to be something where everybody can rally
around.
I made reference in my previous comment to the regional transportation plan in and of itself, quite naturally
with DRCOG serving as the metropolitan planning organization, as written in statute, pursuant to us being
recipients of federal dollars, there are myriad of different things that have to take place in order to bring that
to fruition. Just like when you ask me questions relative to, oh, what about an extension of the Gold Line,
or what have you, all of this, there's things that are in the making that you have to do. We just can't say,
tomorrow we're going to plug this in, because there's work that needs needed to be done. There are
preliminary engineering and things of the.
So getting back to the question that you pose, there's different phases for the work that needs to be done.
And quite naturally, when we're looking at somebody's performance review period, there are critical
elements that need to take place. And that gets back to the whole aspect of it being a SMART goal, specific,
measurable, attainable, realistic, and time bound. And also keeping in mind that we're contributors within
ourselves as individuals but there's going to be interdependencies within the organization. It may call for
coordination with a different jurisdiction, a jurisdictional partner.
Quite naturally, as we look at where we are with joint service, for instance, if we had not done the Northwest
Rail peak feasibility study, there would have not have been any foundational aspect relative to having
conversations that we are currently leveraging. And so when one may have thought, hey, what is this for,
recognizing that RTD doesn't have money at a standalone agency until 2042, basically this was work that
was done as we keep going forward, and this could be reminiscent of what we're doing with the unfinished
FasTracks project.
So there's an individual within the organization that had a goal of finishing this as we go forward. But this is
going to be built upon for different elements that are going to come in the near term, mid term, and the long
term as well.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: One more and then we're moving on, Director Nicholson.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yep. This is a very quick one.
So for each of those goals and those milestones, do we have written documents for each of those projects
with the milestones that we're expecting staff to be hit? And then in their performance reviews and their
plant, are there documents that you get to look at that say, here are the milestones we expect to hit for each
of these project, here are the milestones that each of these employees are expecting to hit?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It sounds like you're asking. Sorry, it sounds like you're asking for a project to plan.
That does not fall under the auspices of the Board. That's the General Manager's responsibility in
overseeing employees. I want to be clear about your question, because if we're going somewhere we are
not supposed to, I'd prefer to pull you back up to the balcony of the Board, and we'll get out of that area
that does not belong to us for personnel matters.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: May I, Mr. Chair?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. I'm asking you a question directly. So now you're talking to me.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. I didn't ask for any documents. I asked whether they exist and whether that's
something that the GM and CEO reviews as a process of understanding what the milestones are. So I
believe it does fall under performance.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. As long as we're not diving into anything below that, I think that's a fair question,
but I know the answer. So Debra Johnson, CEO and General Manager of RTD, are you general managing?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Secretary Nicholson.
As I stated in my previous comments, quite naturally relative to that pyramid, that individuals have
performance goals and plans. Now, I don't look at every single one within the organization. There is a
method relative to ensuring that there's a second level reviewer. So those that are on the leadership team,
absolutely. And with those on the leadership team and their direct reports, do I look at those? Yes, I do.
And quite naturally, it's even broader than that outside of performance plan. If we're working collectively
and we have a project plan and we're working with third parties or we have something inside, we have to
know what we're doing. You can't measure what you can't manage. So of course, we have plans going
forward. We wouldn't be able to submit and get monies through grant opportunities if we did not.
And more specific to our points here, we have to ensure that we're being good fiduciaries. So of course, we
have project plans, we have charters, and a myriad of other documents as we move forward. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. All right. We are going to end that item and move on to our next one.
It is 9:25, folks. If we can wrap this one in 30 minutes, that would be great. I need a few minutes at the end
for members of the Board that are present about the timeline going forward with respect to the Performance
review and the closing out of this year. So I just want to keep everybody aware of time. Thank you so much.
With that, we're going to take a look at the key organizational performance metrics for quarter 4 in 2025.
This is part of our in-depth discussion about Finance as the final pillar of the year. I also want to shout out
thank you to Director Larsen for helping craft the way that we approached this year's deep dives.

I'd like to hand the floor now to CFO Kelly Mackey, as well as Chief of Staff John McKay, to present this
item. It's yours. Thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you again, Chair. So I will lead things off and then I will turn the floor over to Chief
Financial Officer Kelly Mackey at about slide 9 here of our presentation.
As introduced, this is the agency performance scorecard. As referenced in the previous presentation, there
is a specific strategic priority of financial success that we're talking about today, which lives on within the
middle of the strategic plan, if anybody's interested in looking at the printed copy. And for your reference,
this information is available on the performance dashboard, which is a website that was created in May of
this last year and serves as a repository for all of our-- not all, but a good portion of our performance data,
our financial data, survey information, and the scorecards.
Specifically to financial success, there are a few different measures of financial success as adopted by the
Board in October of 2024, specifically with respect to the blue scorecard, the blue agency performance
scorecard. The performance metrics are budget variability, cost per revenue hour, monthly reserves, net
revenue coverage ratio, fare value, and financial trust. And that financial trust, I'll get into deeply, more
deeply than other elements here in just a moment. There are specific performance definitions, and I've
included the descriptions here in how we calculate these specific things.
Moving to the scorecard itself, budget variability, cost per revenue hour, and fare value are all areas that
have improved year over year. That's why they are indicated here in green. So the budget variability through
July of 2025 is lower. The lower the number, the better, at this point. So that we're not overspending at this
point in time. Cost per revenue hour has decreased year over year. Right now-- to date, I believe this is
through July also, that number sits at $328.18 per revenue hour.
The monthly reserves, you see that that's gone from 1.14-- the ratio is 1.14 to 1.01. So it's still in the black
there but previously was better. The net revenue coverage ratio has increased from 0.7 to 1.1 through July.
And with respect to the proposed 2026 budget, that number continues to increase as currently contemplated
in the draft budget, the proposed budget, rather. Fare value, we see that there was a 4% increase year
over year in the percentage of customers who agree or strongly agree that fares are reasonable.
Moving on to the financial trust index, and I'm going to be popping off of this screen here momentarily to go
to the way this is calculated in sum. But this is something that is unique to RTD. This is a measure that we
crafted last year and the Board adopted, again, in October of 2024. This is a financial trust index that weighs
three different aspects of external entities' view of our financial health as an agency.
So if you'll recall, in August of 2024, the Office of the State Auditor released its audit, or its performance
audit of RTD. And they use, typically for reviewing state agencies, they use nine specific financial health
ratios. RTD did meet all nine of those financial health ratios with respect to the audit from 2024. We use
that as a 50% of the weighting of the financial trust index, along with bond rating. 20% of the weighted index
is in relation to bonds, our bond rating.
And then the average of community survey responses of those four different questions about RTD's
financial management or resource management. Good financial steward of public funds. The community's
investment in transit provides value and RTD's financial reporting is understandable and transparent. And
like I said, give me one moment while I pull up this other. This is much more difficult to do in one screen
here, so bear with me. Here we go.

So this is in sum-- it's kind of hard to see. I'll scroll into the extent I'm able to. This is how this is calculated.
You'll see that all told, that we received a 4.2 out of 5. And again, this is a unique indicator that we developed
within RTD. This is not something you'll see at another transit agency. But I think it is a good representation
because this financial health, this is how the state views us. Bond rating is how investors view us. And
community sentiment is obviously how the community views our services and our financial management.
And so, in sum, this is a pretty good snapshot of the community writ large, their view of our ability to provide
good service and to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars.
So with this, give me one more second, and I'm going to go back to the other presentation. And then I will
be handing this over to Kelly Mackey.
Kelly, when you're ready.
KELLY MACKEY: [INAUDIBLE] McKay. Appreciate it. Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer.
Each month, a financial status report is included in the Board briefings. This report displays a dashboard
with sales and use taxes, ridership, and fare revenues, as well as the unaudited financial statements. And
following the conclusion of the fiscal year ending in December, an annual comprehensive financial report
is produced, audited by the independent auditors, and is presented to the Audit Committee and the full
Board as a recommended action. So next slide, please.
Today, we are discussing with the Performance Committee RTD's financial results and position year to date
through July 31, 2025. Next slide.
This discussion is not only to provide an update but also in preparation for the 2026 proposed budget and
long range financial plan discussion items in the Finance and Planning Committee scheduled for October
14, 2025. I will also share these year-to-date financial results in that meeting.
Today, we will review actual results versus budget and then versus prior year. The figures here are in
thousands of dollars. And this view shows that the variances of actuals to budget and year-over-year is in
gray. Overall revenue is $631 million versus a budget of $768 million, which is $137 million unfavorable due
primarily to federal grants, where we are expecting to draw them down later in the year, as we discussed
in the July Finance and Planning Committee meeting on Q1 financial results earlier in the year.
Staff generally spreads the budget for grant funding across several months, and the actual timing depends
on when the application is approved and when RTD can start drawing down money with the funds released.
Next, fares of $34 million are $519,000 favorable year to date to budget, and are $1 million lower than prior
year. Sales and use tax of $493 million was $13 million unfavorable to budget and grew $6 million, or 1%
from prior year, which is consistent with sales and use growth trend over the past several years. This puts
pressure on the agency in future years, because costs typically rise at a higher rate with inflation. And keep
in mind that the 2025 budget was approved by the Board in November of 2024.
Other revenue, which includes advertising revenue and investment income, came in at $46 million, or $20
million favorable to budget. $17 million of the favorable variance is from investment income. Other income
grew $619,000 from prior year.
Director Benker did request in September that we break out state grant revenue. State grant revenue was
$2 million year to date for Zero Fare for Youth. And that funding soon ends on January 31, 2026. After
reviewing with our auditors, RubinBrown, they did recommend that RTD not actually break out state grant

revenue in the financial statements due to its immateriality and inconsistency with other transit agencies.
However, we are able to provide that amount separately.
Operating expense year to date was $543 million versus a $788,000 budget-- I'm sorry, $788 million budget.
More than $100 million of this favorability is due to timing of East Colfax BRT expenses. Keep in mind that
the project is a pass through to the City and County of Denver. Cost was budgeted conservatively in 2025
due to the project's complexity and grant timing, and funds will carry forward into 2026.
Other favorability and operating expense is related to slower and more conservative spending. Operating
expense increased by $51 million from the prior year. Depreciation of $109 million was close to plan and
just higher than prior year. Interest expense on debt of $74 million is $10 million favorable to budget and
$2 million better than prior year due to refinancing that took place after the 2025 budget was adopted.
In total, expense of $809 million exceeded year-to-date revenue of $631 million, for a decrease in net
position of $178 million, which directly impacts reserves. This was $137 million favorable to the 2025 budget
of a $314 million decrease in net position. Next slide, please.
Moving on to the financial position. These are the results of money in and money out and ending balances
as of July 31 of 2025 versus July 31 of 2024. The critical component is what's available to RTD, potentially
to spend after subtracting all liabilities and other obligations. Cash investments and account receivable of
$1.2 billion have declined $99 million, or 8% from prior year year to date. Cash and investments are down
$116 million, or 11% from prior year, and accounts receivable are up $17 million, or 8%.
Fast FasTracks fund balances of $526 million declined $32 million, or 6%, due to restricted fund decline to
$279 million from 323. Base system fund balances of $576 million declined $96 million, or 14% from prior
year. The total of these subcategories is $2.3 billion, which declined $227 million, or 9% from prior year,
and is directly related to the decrease in net position on the prior slide.
So to summarize what I've discussed so far regarding the financial results, revenue is behind expectations
due to timing of grants. RTD has a positive expenditure variance offsetting the revenue shortfall, and RTD
has a strong, though declining financial position. Next slide, please.
Historical trends is what I'll review next. These charts are included in the monthly financial statements that
you have seen. The far left year is 2019. And on the left side, the top line, the red line, is the trend in cash,
investments, and accounts receivable. The yellow line is based system and the blue line is FasTracks.
You can see that the financial position of RTD strengthened significantly through 2023, and then began to
decline in 2024 and in the 2025 budget and actuals. The flip side, if you look at the right side of the slide, is
what do we owe on the balance sheet? Since 2019, this chart starts to show a nice trend over the past six
years in big obligations that RTD has started to pay down.
And the blue section is the total debt profile. Everything in the principal amount of debt owed to our investors
that was borrowed in 2019 is $3.9 billion, and we're left with a current outstanding principal balance of $3.3
billion at the end of July 2025. Part of that reduction is actual debt service that has been paid, and a lot of
it is also due to the debt refinancings that have occurred in more recent years when RTD had the
opportunity. Staff refinanced debt for interest savings and took out some of the principal balance at the
same time, reducing the risk to RTD.
The pension obligation is $154 million, down from $304 million in 2019. You may recall in 2022, with the
collective bargaining agreement, the Amalgamated Transit Union and RTD worked together to address the

large pension obligation. The pension plan was closed to new employees, for represented employees,
going forward in 2023. There was also a large payment of $160 million, a lump sum put into that plan, that
reduced the risk profile to RTD. Next slide.
Moving into fund balances, we have broken this down by types of fund balances. The fund balances are
RTD's assets minus its liabilities. They are also known in the private sector as owner's equity. It's essentially
the savings that are left over if RTD were to pay off its obligations. We have a column for base system, a
column for FasTracks, and a column in gray for total, followed by where these were in the prior year and
the year-over-year variances from July 31, 2025.
Restricted fund balances are restricted by contracts and agreements, such as debt agreements. That's
money that has to be set aside to service debt. For example, we have a restricted TABOR reserve that's
required of all government agencies in Colorado to maintain a 3% reserve. And those funds showed here
as $115 million are essentially untouchable for covenants.
Next are funds that fall under the Board auspices, which are remaining funds after moving unrestricted
reserves. Through fiscal policy that the Board has adopted and through discussion, there are essentially
four different fund balances. The words fund and reserves are really interchangeable.
The operating reserves have been established as three months of operating expenses, excluding
depreciation, which is $301 million. Next is the capital replacement fund established through the budgeting
process. And while we have a good cash position, we identify $261 million to set aside for capital
replacement. That has to do with state of good repair, the Transit Asset Management plan, and having that
funding available. So we do not have to, this year at least, borrow money and pay additional interest.
Our Five-Year Financial Forecast shows this capital replacement fund will not be sufficient for the 2026
through 2030 time frame. We currently have $192 million in the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, known
as FISA, and that is the fund balance established by the Board several years ago to put money away for
FasTracks projects.
And finally, we show the unrestricted fund balance, which is a credit balance of $93 million, primarily due
to the delay in 2025 grants revenue. This balance was a positive $58 million at the end of 2024. Next slide,
please.
So keep in mind that restricted funds are a contractual or statutory requirements, such as TABOR, and the
other items are under the Board auspices. The Board has the authority to spend and only the Board can
appropriate those funds. Next slide.
In wrapping up, while revenue is behind expectations, we expect federal grant draws toward the end of the
year. And the good news is that expense is quite favorable to budget. However, the primary challenge is
that spend continues to exceed revenue, which naturally results in a decline of RTD's financial position,
though that decline year to date is better than budget. RTD's financial statements may look like the agency
has a lot of money, but essentially it is spoken for and RTD needs that money to maintain what it has in the
system.
And, Mr. Chair, that concludes my presentation for the financial update.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much, Mr. McKay and CFO Mackey. I appreciate the presentation. I
would open the floor to any questions from Directors. It is 9:43, so just keep in mind any time commitment
we've got to get done. I don't see any hands raised. Director Nicholson.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Let me turn my camera on. I didn't expect to get to go first. I figured
Director Benker would jump in before me.
I wanted to say, one of the things that I really appreciate about the management of this agency over the
last few years has been the financial management that both GM/CEO Johnson has done that now CFO
Mackey has taken over, and obviously that Doug MacLeod, may he enjoy his retirement or whatever he's
doing now, has done, because I believe we are in a much better financial position relative to some of our
compatriots around the country at the moment.
I was wondering if you can speak to where you see the long-term challenges in terms of our financial
picture-- and we'll get into more of this when we come up to the conversation around the five-year financial
forecast. But what are the pitfalls and the warning signs in terms of what those of us who are going to be
on the Board for another seven years should be thinking about right now?
Often, executives at companies are incented to make the short-term choice that makes things look good in
the moment and maybe is not the thing that is as easy. We saw that with 20 years of light rail maintenance
that didn't happen and then had to happen in one year. Where do you see that pitfall now, at the moment?
And what are the tradeoff choices that maybe we're making at the moment that hit on that? If you can talk
a little bit about that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I see Madam CEO's hand up. So I'm going to call on her and then she can hand off
to whomever she chooses.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Secretary Nicholson.
I'll yield the floor to Ms. Mackey. But I would be remiss if I didn't start out by framing this quite naturally, as
we talk about the large investments that need to be made with maintaining and then ensuring that there will
be a transit network for the near term. When I say near term, I'm talking about tomorrow and the tomorrows
to come as a whole.
You referenced, Secretary Nicholson, relative to choices that were made by individuals that preceded us
regarding this agency, and now we are playing catch up. I think it's incredibly important that this agency
does not lose sight of what the RTD Act states, that we are responsible for providing mass transit services
to this great region. And in doing so, that is very labor intensive, and we need to ensure, as we talked about
before, that we can maintain our assets in a state of good repair. It's keeping in mind that we have to ensure
that we're looking at fleet replacement cycles.
Also to the point, there's a lot of unknown variables relative to where we sit currently in reference to
alternative fueling technologies. Regardless of a propulsion system, there are still commitments that need
to be made in reference to being sustainable, and that could be done with a near zero NOx engine in a
clean diesel bus versus something else going forward because it emits only 0.01 of a particulate.
So we need to think basically about our facilities as a whole and where might they be located, considering
that real estate is prime as we move forward, but ensuring that we are doing that with intentionality and
looking at where we are today, and we can plan for the future, because as it relates to our current revenue
streams, sales and use tax, 70%, give or take-- and Ms. Mackey could speak more about that-- but then
again, we're having a discussion as it relates to farebox recovery.
Well, that's critically important. You have to think about it through the lens of subsidized public services.
Basically, you're not writing a quick little check or paying a fare before you call 911 for emergency services,

and public transport is treated differently in this country than fire service, getting an ambulance service, or
any type of emergency responding entities.
And so as we look at it collectively, I would say we have to have a laser-like focus on our facilities, looking
at the useful life benchmarks and ensuring that we are investing in that appropriately so as we move down
the pike in 10 years, we know what it is that we should be doing and not kicking the can by virtue of saying,
well, it looks OK, and you did that rail reconstruction back in '20, the summer of 2024, for five intersections.
So that's what I wanted to provide. And then I'll yield the floor to Ms. Mackey, because quite naturally, we
have been talking about all of this ad nauseam as of late.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you. Yes. Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer.
I agree. Things that are on my mind are continued cost increases, [INAUDIBLE] of late been quite high.
And if you look at revenue growth, excluding things like Colfax BRT that are one time, revenue growth has
been 1% consistently on average over the past five years or so. And so that's concerning to me, because
costs would naturally grow faster than that.
And we will dive more into these details in the Finance and Planning Committee, because we have not only
the proposed budget but we have the Long Range Financial Plan, which really clearly lays this out for you.
So you'll be able to see it very well in there. But it was also in the 2018 Long Range Financial Plan that was
done by WSP. So that's a really good place to start, if you want to go back to look at that one first and we'll
touch on that more.
I think revenue diversification is on my mind a lot. It's an issue. I think we need to find other sources of
revenue. Cost increases are really interesting in transit, I'm learning. There was a Bloomberg article that
was put out September 26. It's worth reading. And it's about lack of suppliers for buses and how that really
boosts the cost of buses. So there's definitely unique cost implications that are impactful to transit that you
don't necessarily see in other industries.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just so you are aware, Director Nicholson, we will have a second opportunity to spend
a lot of time working on this in Finance and Planning after we review the FIFE that you've returned to the
committee. So go ahead and follow up with your question and then we can see if anybody else has a
opinion or question.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. CFO Mackey raised a really important point about cost increases. And
obviously, tariffs are one piece of that. We just got done addressing a program that has seen substantial
cost increase and is currently seeing on the order of 25% per year increases in costs that we mitigated
somewhat.
And I was wondering, are there any other parts of the budget out there that you're aware of that are seeing
those extensive, really large, double digit increases in cost, where you're seeing warning signs about, oh,
this department or this maintenance or this whatever, something else in the budget that is growing at 20%
per year regularly and is something maybe the Board should be paying attention to as a result?
KELLY MACKEY: Yeah, I would like to answer that in the Finance and Planning Committee meeting, if
that's all right. It's a good question. I think, I don't know if it's over 20%, but some things that stand out are
I've seen some big insurance bills come across and related claims and things like that. And I think looking
at the Transit Asset Management plan, there's definitely areas where it's going to impact RTD in the near
future where there's big expenses, such as Platte building is 50 years old. It's not necessarily laid out in

detail of when that will be replaced or when they'll be invested in. So I will dive more into that next week, if
that's all right.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, CFO Mackey. I don't see any other hands raised, so I'm going to say this
part. This is the Performance Committee. So looking at the performance of how we've done this year, given
what was passed on to you, CFO Mackey, as you transitioned into the new role, I am pleased to see that
we are not doing terrible.
I am disappointed that our sales and use tax hasn't kept up. I was afraid that was going to happen last year
and the year before. So thank you for the trend line that demonstrates that I wasn't out of my mind when I
said, why are we being so rosy about this outlook. I have the same question, I'm sure, unless Leeds brings
back something that is a little bit more grounded in what I think is reality on the ground level, at the street,
and the bus stop. I don't see people spending what they were spending before. And so I think that's
something we really need to concern ourselves with.
We know how we get revenue is something bound by our statute. But I also think that we can do great
damage if we don't think through short-term decision making to make popular political points as elected
officials. And sometimes that means that we have to use the revenue sources that we have to the fullest
extent possible. And so I know that there's a pending discussion that will potentially be going to Operation,
Safety, and Security about what we do for marketing on our buses and trains. But as a source of revenue,
I think it's important to consider the long-term effect of not having a revenue source, since you brought that
up.
And I know that we're not going to run this agency off of fares. I mean, we'd be charging $100, $300 a ride
if we were going to try and break even as a private entity. And that's not how this works anywhere in the
country. We fought really hard as an agency to true up the fares, make them easy to understand, help
everybody move around. We have an amazing discount program that we have done better than other
places too on in who we allow to use it.
So I'm with you on it. I'm looking forward to the budget discussion happening in Finance and Planning, but
thank you for presenting on the finances as a performance metric and breaking it down how we look at it
with the Office of the Auditor here in Colorado and what our internal gauge of that is. I do appreciate that
work from both of you, Mr. McKay.
All right. Thank you. We have one matter to discuss before we end this meeting. And this is for everybody's
awareness. Give me one moment while I start sharing my screen.
All right. Does that look OK? I am using a single screen as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. 2025 assessment timeline. This committee is responsible for shepherding
that through to the Board before the end of the year. In an effort to make this doable, I wanted to share this
timeline with you. It's very high level. I've got some coloring in to do here. But essentially, this is how it's
going to break down.
As we discussed last time, I am working with Vice Chair Gutschenritter, Charlene Polege, and the human
resource team to make sure that we have all of our tools ready to go, and we are reviewing the assessment
tools. I am waiting for an email on that one so that Vice Chair Gutschenritter and I can jump in and start
reviewing.

We want to make sure that we have the performance assessment tool ready for each Director to participate
in. That means you'll get a link. You'll fill out your survey. You'll have an opportunity to opine. And then the
performance score and the pay increase table is correctly adjusted for this year's goals and the way that
we have weighted things. And then we want to make sure that we had this discussion with you.
From October 1 to October 6, which is this meeting, we're laying out the timeline. On October 6, we will
present it. So here we are. Sorry, I'm catching up with my notes.
Beginning on 10/28/25-- this is where you guys are going to want to take notes, Directors-- GM/CEO Debra
Johnson is going to provide the Board of Directors with the self-assessment. This will be done in executive
session. It is a privileged conversation. The only person who has auspices to share anything outside of that
meeting will be the employee, under state law. And with respect to our contract and our employee, we want
to make sure we maintain that.
The communication will be among the 15 Board members who are all invited to attend. It is expected that
we arrive to this one in person, not by electronic means, because this is a human conversation first. From
10/29 to 11/7, November 7, you will receive individually an identifiable link for your access to the General
Manager/CEO performance tool. You will have seven business days, or nine calendar days, to complete
that evaluation. Written commentary attached to your email and it will be identified in all reports.
There is not an option for anonymity in this process, as follow-up from the General Manager/CEO to the
commenting Director may be necessary for clarification. Remember, this is both a critique but also
commentary on the work that is done. And so if there's something that's misunderstood, it's just very helpful
for the General Manager/CEO to be able to communicate with the Director who submitted any kind of
comment to ensure that the communication is crystal clear.
If the submission is not received by the deadline of 5:00 PM on November 7, 2025, it will not be included.
That's a hard deadline. There will be no extension of time given at this stage. There's a reason why. We
have a timeline to get this before the Board, and extending these timelines cannot happen. So these are
finite. I'm giving you the heads up since now, at the beginning of October, that by 11/7 at 5:00 PM, your
review work must be submitted.
I'm going to remind everybody, please refrain from utilizing any type of artificial intelligence to compose
your commentary or written feedback. This is our job. If you need assistance, please reach out to a fellow
Director, to myself as Chair, to the Vice Chair of our Performance, or to the Board Chair. I'm sure all of us
would be willing to lend a hand.
From 11/10 to 11/1, HR will compile a preliminary report based on submitted Director assessment
submissions. Remember, these are only those submissions that made it on time that will be included in that
final product.
From 11/12 to 11/14, we will prepare committee materials for the Performance Committee. There will be
an agenda, General Manager CEO Johnson's self-assessment, and then the preliminary Board assessment
report will be disseminated at that meeting. That will be the executive session held on the 17th. Sorry, I got
to catch up with my notes.
On the 17th, we'll have the opportunity to engage with General Manager/CEO Johnson. And upon
conclusion of that meeting, so when that meeting is adjourned, we will begin a 24-hour clock. should any
Director feel the need to adjust any of their scores or their comments, you will receive a 24-hour window

only to submit those back to the Board. I know it can seem short, but if it's important enough to do an
adjustment to your comments, you will need to do that quickly.
And I want to incentivize you to get it done quickly, because Board Chair Julien Bouquet and I will need to
audit all responses before we finalize anything, and staff still does need time to prepare the final report that
we bring forward as recommended action to the Board.
If we can do this in a timely manner, then sometime between November 19 and 21, once our audit is
complete-- if there are no changes, it will be done sooner, if it is needing to be updated, it might take a bit
longer. Then, once that audit is complete, we will have a final report that will be brought through this
committee and recommended to the Board. That may happen before the Executive Committee's meeting.
It may happen immediately before the Board meeting, depending on timing.
But I would remind everybody, a bit of the crunch is that the holidays begin that week. So we have
Thanksgiving, and then we are in a rush to finish our work before the December, January holidays begin,
because we don't typically have meetings in those months, so we need to make it on time for the last Board
meeting of the year to ratify the finality of this review period. So I thank you for your dedication and your
participation in this.
Let's see. December 2 is the last opportunity, without calling a special Performance Committee and a
subsequent Board meeting, for the Board of Directors to complete this review and assessment agreement.
So that is the goal.
I want to just make sure that everybody understands, that's how we're going to try and land this plane. Are
there any quick questions? I'm going to stop sharing at this point.
I don't see any hands raised, so I hope you captured that. If you don't have it, I'd be happy to send it out to
you individually. This has been a lot of work for the General Manager and I to negotiate all of the dates and
times, making sure that Board staff is aware of what's going on, making sure that we have it all laid out for
you so that we can land this plane as smoothly as possible through the end of the year.
I again want to thank you all for your commitment to getting work done on this committee and coming
prepared. It is really noticeable and we've had a really easy time doing that this year. Behind the scenes,
your Vice Chair and I have spent quite a bit of time working with our staff to make sure that everything is
internalized here at RTD but that we have the proper controls in place to oversee it. And we will continue
to do that work and meet our commitment that we will finish our work plan before the end of the year.
So I think we're on a good track. I'm two minutes over time. I apologize. General Manager/CEO Johnson,
is there anything that you need to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, Committee Chair Guzman. Thank you very much. I'm good.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Very quickly, our next meeting date will be Monday, November 17, 2025. It
will be at 4:00 PM. And the meeting will be for the presentation and discussion on the General
Manager/CEO's self performance appraisal. The meeting will be held in person at Blake Street. All Directors
are highly encouraged to attend, and the majority of our meeting will be in the executive session that is
under the auspices of this committee.
So fair warning, I need five of you, please, to arrive at Blake or let me know if you will be absent ahead of
time. It's really critical that five members of this committee be present. Thank you.

Are there any other matters? I see none. Can I have a motion to adjourn?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved, Buzek.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. We will adjourn the meeting at 10:03 AM. Apologies. General
Manager/CEO and staff, thank you so much for your participation. See you on the 17th.

