Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 6, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on April 5, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Daly, Hoy,
James, Tayer, Tobiassen, and Chair Kemp.
Directors Deadwyler, McMullen, O’Boyle, and Riley. Director Malpiede
left early.

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Jeff Boerma, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin
Flynn, Marcia Fraley, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Jason Longsdorf, Pat McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Ana Mostaccero, Andy Mutz, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula
Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Scott Roberts, Teresa Sedmak,
Jannette Scarpino, Prunaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Danielle Smith, Greg
Straight, Walt Stringer, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill
Van Meter, Del Walker, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

K. Burass-CAC, Mac Callison–City of Aurora, Frank Cannon–USNC,
Alan Canter, Jenny Clark–DUSPA, Dana Crawford–Oxford, Melissa
Doal, R. Falkenberg, David Gandesa, Gilberta, Jerry Glick-DUSPA, Dan
Guimond–EPS, Todd Langorsh, Chris Leutzinger–EPS, Deyl Kinton,
Herman Malone, T.C. Martin–DTCG, Aaron Miripol–Urban Land
Conservancy, L. Nelson, Stuart Ohlson–OSIG, L. O’Kelley–USA, Jim
Paulmeno–CDOT/FasTracks, George S.-DRCOG, Ken Schroeppel-USA,
M. Salzman, J. Salzman, John Shaw, President-McWhinney, Jeb
Sloan–Baker, John West–DTCG, Martin Willie–USNC, and Bob Wilson.
****

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 7:58 p.m.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 2
I.

Updates
 CAC
No Updates

II.

Recommended Action
Rick Clarke and Del Walker introduced these action items. Rick noted that the IGA
for I-225 will need to be executed before the work can begin on the I-225 corridor.
These action items allow staff to prepare a package that we are doing jointly with
CDOT which has a number of benefits including financial. To break ground this year,
we need to get the paperwork underway. The 1st item allows us more
consulting/staff help
Committee Chair Cohen indicated he would entertain a motion to move these two
action items together.


Transfer from FasTracks Contingency Reserve for Near Term Staffing for the I225 Corridor, Segment 1

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the transfer of $1,050,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to the I-225 Corridor Project budget to fund near term staffing needs for
Segment 1 of the I-225 Corridor. These funds would be replenished from the
$305million available funding upon signing of the Full Funding Grant Agreement
(FFGA) for the Eagle Project. The fund transfer would take effect upon execution of
the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Aurora for the East Corridor.


Contract Amendment with Michael Baker, Jr., Inc for Post-Design Services on
the I-225 Corridor, Segment 1, Contract No. 17-DH-006

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or designees to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment not to exceed $400,000 with Michael
Baker Jr., Inc. (Baker) to provide post-design services for Segment 1, Nine Mile to
Iliff, on the I-225 Corridor. This action would increase the current contract amount
of $9,756,237 to a new contract total of $10,156,237.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $400,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the I-225 Corridor Project budget to fund this work. These
funds would be replenished from the $305 million available funding upon signing of
the Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) for the Eagle Project. These actions will
take effect upon execution of the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City
of Aurora for the East Corridor.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 3
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward these two items to the full
board at the April 19, 2011 Board
meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Vote on
the motion:
III.

The motion passed Unanimously.

Eagle Project Update
Greg Straight presented a revised PowerPoint presentation on the Eagle P3. A copy
of this presentation is available with the minutes in the Board office.
Greg identified some of the highlights including the plans for a technical mock up
construction of the EMU by Hyundai Rotem USA which will be on display at DUS
during late may, 2011. He also discussed the possibility of two additional Gateway
Stations on the East Corridor and provided background on these stations. He
shared the analysis and decision criteria that included operational impacts,
infrastructure and rolling stock analysis, schedule. costs and preliminary
identification of any other information required by the proposed station additions.
Greg also provided an update on the prairie dog issue, the prairie dog mitigation
policy and steps being taking by RTD to manage this issue to a successful
resolution.
Greg explained that we will have 50 rail cars in semi-married pairs which will be able
to connect up to 8 cars at a time, or 4 pairs. The mock up is currently being shipped
to the US which should arrive this week. The mock up is made of plywood, and is
1/3 of the vehicle length. This will allow for public review and feedback.
Chair Kemp asked if Rotem vehicles will also be the rail cars for the Northwest line.
Greg indicated that those rail cars would be bid out.
Chair Kemp inquired if these rail cars are completely built in Philadelphia or are they
shipped in parts from South Korea and assembled in Philadelphia. Greg indicated that
they will be completely built in Philadelphia minus the pilot car. Buy America requires
that at least 60 percent be American made. Rick Clarke emphasized that RTD is in
total compliance with the Buy America requirements and Rotem will exceed the
minimum requirement in this purchase.
Director Bagley inquired about the general cost for these additional stations. Greg
indicated the concessionaires are still working on the estimates.
Director Tobiassen noted that costs seem high, especially with regards to the double

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 4
track needed to/from DIA and asked who is going to pay for this. Greg indicated that
RTD will work with DIA, but the developer will be responsible for the cost of the
double tracks.
Director Tobiassen further noted that the Prairie Dog Advocates have been working
on this issue with staff, and it seems there are quite a few options.
Director Brohl inquired if RTD relocated the prairie dogs to RTD vacant land, are we
not just delaying the issue. Liz Telford explained that we would not relocate the
prairie dogs to potential Park-N-Ride locations, or other property that could be resold.
We would not want to impact ourselves in a non financial way. Also, Colorado
Wildlife Department would have to approve the potential site. It has to be a
sustainable site for the prairie dogs.
Director Hoy asked about the process for relocating prairie dogs. Staff explained
that it would require county approval as well as approval by the Colorado
Department of Wildlife.
IV.

Near Term Project Implementation Strategy
Del Walker provided handouts of the near term implementation strategy for the
construction ready Phase 1implementation of the approved use of the $305M
explained the highlights of the Implementation of Phase 1. The Board was generally
satisfied with this strategy and had few questions.
Director Anderson asked if the Central Corridor Extension will have a connection or
transfer point. Del Walker indicated that yes, there would be a connection. Rick
Clarke noted the end point for the I-225 is the Peoria Smith Road. RTD will follow
the CDOT right of way up to Iliff but starts to divert and follow a different ROW
pass Iliff.
Director Tobiassen thanked the staff for this presentation and requested an
electronic copy of the presentation.
Director Bagley thanked the team for this presentation and expressed it is like
putting meat on the bone. He noted that this implementation strategy assumes
assumed the FFGA is in place before a penny is spent.

V.

Aurora-RTD Intergovernmental Agreement-East Corridor
Rick Clarke presented this update. He stated that RTD is working with Aurora on
the terms and conditions of the IGA and the local match. He indicated they are
making significant progress but there is one open issue with the payment for the
Smith grade crossing. The committee is working to identify funds for grade
separation.
Regarding the Aurora IGA, Director Bagley inquired as to what the Denver match
included. Denver is currently over matched in other corridors Director Bagley asked
for a comparison on matches from other corridors. He stated the I-225 match is not
as meaningful as he had hoped.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, April 5, 2011
Page 5
VI.

Other Matters
Pauletta Tonilas provided the “Call to the People” communications work plan and
passed out a handout to the Board for talking points. She explained that RTD is
putting a “Call to the People” through newspaper and online video to educate the
public with regards to FasTracks. Pauletta noted that we want to hear from the
public directly to get their opinions. Paula further noted that while the input is not
statistically valid, we are giving the general public different ways to contact us
giving their opinions. We hope to have the polling results back by April 28th so that
the Board can make a decision by May 3rd. General Manager Washington added that
the majority of the public are not aware of what RTD is doing, or the progress that
we are making. This plan helps get that message out.
Director Tayer noted that the current video available online might benefit from more
images from the various construction sites.
 Director Cohen noted his family’s recent accomplishments, highlighting his son
who earned the title as state champion gymnast for his age group.

VIII

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for May 3,
2011.

IX.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at 9:10 p.m.

