Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January
6, 2009
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

January 13, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, January 6, 2009 at 8:20 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Bill Christopher, Chair; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Cohen,
Daly, James, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer, and
Tobiassen.
Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Daria Serna, Scott Reed, Stan Szabelak, Bill Van
Meter, Dave Shelley, John Shonsey, Henry Stopplecamp, John Tarbert,
Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Carol Tobiassen, Margie O’Boyle, Holman Carter (ATU)
Jeff Leib (Denver Post), Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News)
****

Call to Order
I.

Director Christopher called to the meeting to order at 8:20 p.m.

Recommended Action
District-Wide Enclaves Annexations and Assignment of Newly Annexed Land to
Appropriate Director Districts
Cal Marsella, General Manager, indicated that Dave Shelley looks at growth areas in the
district annually and recommends adjustments to boundaries as required.
Dave Shelley, Manager, Corridor Planning, indicated that these are annexations into the
district and are pieces of land which are already surrounded by RTD.
A public hearing will be held at the January 20, 2009 Board Meeting for these
annexations.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January
6, 2009
Page 2 of 2

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the resolution to annex to the District nine enclaves as depicted in
the attached maps and described in the attached legal descriptions, receive any
comments from the public at the Board of Directors’ meeting regarding these
annexations, and assign the newly annexed lands to the Director districts F, G, and I,
as appropriate.

Motion:

Director Pulliam made the motion to
approve the recommendation and forward
to the January 20, 2009 Board Meeting
agenda.

Second:

Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed unanimously.

II.

Other Matters
No Other matters were discussed.

III.

Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, February 3,
2009.

IV.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher declared the meeting adjourned
at 8:26 p.m.

