2020-06-30
Study Session
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
BILL VAN METER: Good afternoon, everyone. It's Bill Van Meter. And it looks like we've
probably hit a critical mass, and we're certainly three minutes after the top of the hour when this
meeting was scheduled. We have a lot of items to discuss regarding both the Reimagine RTD
topic, as well as the update from the Leeds School of Business folks that we want to be able to get
to in the next hour and a half or so. So thought it would be a good idea if I took the bull by the
horn and tried to do a quick introduction and say hello and get the ball rolling.
I think Holly and Annie from Felsburg, Holt & Ullevig are going to take a lead role in taking us
through the Reimagine agenda, which is going to be giving kind of an update on Reimagine RTD,
really delving into the system optimization process, plan process, and looking at next steps and
looking to get some information and some thoughts and input from you, the RTD Board members
being the "you" I'm addressing right now, and a little bit of thoughts and ideas as to your responses
and input on progress to date on the project. We'll be hearing from the Technical Working Group
and Advisory Committee.
So instead of blabbering on anymore-- I think I got a thumbs-up up from Holly that she's ready.
I'll take that as my cue to quit blabbering and turn it over to someone who actually knows what
she's talking about, Holly. Thank you.
HOLLY BUCK: Do we need a a safety moment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Mr. Van Meter, before we start, may I officially call the
meeting to order?
BILL VAN METER: Yes, you may. Yes, you may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I would now like to call the study session for Tuesday,
June 30 to order. We are convened as of 3:06 PM Mountain Daylight Time. And I would
respectfully ask everyone in this meeting to ensure that your phones are muted and that your ringers
are set to silent.
Today, as you've heard, we will hear a presentation from our Reimagine RTD team. And the
directors on this call will be asked during the discussion to participate in a polling exercise using
a tool called the Mentimeter. To participate, using a browser on your computer, tablet, or
smartphone, go to menti-- M-E-N-T-I-- .com and enter the six-digit code that we will be getting
from there. Now, I'm told this will be really easy to do, but Mr. McKay and Miss McManus are on
the phone to help us get through this. And they'll tell us when to do that at the appropriate time.
So with that, please let me turn it over to you, Miss Holly, and let you take it from there.

HOLLY BUCK: Super. Thank you. Do we need to have an official safety moment in this context?
I wasn't sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't have one in my script. So, Miss McManus, Mr. McKay?
Anybody?
MIKE: Yeah, this is Mike. I'll jump in here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
MIKE: And I know that we talk about this all the time. But it's worth mentioning again. As
everyone's seen on the news, there's an increase in cases of COVID-19. [AUDIO OUT] pretty
substantial levels. Things are increasing again. And so that's a great reminder to everybody. I
would say, just because things are opening up back out there doesn't mean you have to go to those
places that are opening up.
So just use good judgment. If you do go out in public, please wear a mask. I know you read about
all kinds of things. You can pretty much see whatever position you want to choose if you look hard
enough on social media or the internet. But all of these statistics are showing that it does help, does
help keep us safe. So please wear a mask if you're out in public. Anytime you're outside of your
home, try to do that.
Continue to wash hands. Continue to make sure that you're doing all those things, wiping down
surfaces, as we can possibly do. This is not over yet. So just be very careful out there. Be safe.
Protect yourself and others. That's as concise as I can say it, I think. Thank you.
HOLLY BUCK: Thank you. Annie, we are at about 3:08, but I know you have a couple of items
just for housekeeping.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Yeah, I do. So, good afternoon, Chair Malpiede and Board of Directors.
So, we are pleased to be presenting, as Bill said, for Reimagine RTD. I'm Annie McFarland. And
I'll be facilitating the meeting or at least this section of the meeting today with the help of Cady
Dawson, who also works at FHU.
I would like to review a couple Zoom features that we'll be using today. So if you move your
mouse across the Zoom screen, there should be a toolbar that shows up at the bottom. And I would
encourage you to click on Chat and Participants. And that should pull up a column on the righthand side of your screen. The top, you'll be able to see everybody who's on the meeting today. And
the bottom will be your chat window. And in between those should be a series of icons, one of
which looks like raising a hand. And that's what we'll ask you to do if you have questions during
the presentation.
We have built in a few breaks for questions, and then of course, at the end of the presentation, we'll
turn it over to the Board for discussion. If you lose that hand raising feature when we're switching
screens, feel free to just send me a chat and let me know that you have a question, and we'll get
you in the queue. But really today, we want to be hearing from you.

As mentioned earlier, we will be doing a Mentimeter vote. So having your smartphone handy will
be really great. So right now, you're on mute. And during the presentation, I would just ask that
you keep yourself on mute. However, we are going to take a few moments to do introductions of
the Board, just to make sure that your audio is working.
So I'll be doing a roll call alphabetically by last name. So when I call your name if you could go
ahead and unmute yourself, introduce yourself, and tell us what district you represent, that would
be great. So let's get started with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Hi, Bob Broom, District F.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek. Director Buzek, District J.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Great. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Peggy Catlin, Director District N.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Apologies, Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook, Director District L.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: And Director Folska. OK. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Lynn Guissinger, Director District O.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi, Shontel Lewis, District B.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Great. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Hi. Judy Lubow, District I.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: And Chair Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Director Malpiede, District C.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Hi, good afternoon. I'm here, and I'm in Director G.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Great.
KEN MIHALIK: Sorry. District G.

ANNIE MCFARLAND: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Doug Tisdale, District H.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: And Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker, District D.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Troy Whitmore, District K, Adams County. Thanks.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: And Director Williams. All right. Thank you. One last order of business- for security reasons, we have closed down the chat amongst participants. As I mentioned earlier,
you can still send me a chat if you're having technical difficulties or need to reach me. Also note
that we will not be sharing any information over chat. Even if it seems like we have sent you a link
with relevant information, please do not click on it. It's one of our security measures. And any
additional information we'll send out via email after the meeting. And with that, I'll turn it over to
Holly Buck.
HOLLY BUCK: Good. Thanks so much, Annie. We have a lot of good information to share with
you. And I think Annie's going to pull up the presentation now, and we'll step through it. But I
wanted to start by saying thank you so much for having tests today. We've been working
collaboratively with the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee since the fall of
2019. And I know you've seen several updates through that time, but we'll provide a more
comprehensive look from start to finish hopefully to sort of paint the whole picture today of where
we've been and where we're headed. And hopefully that will-- we'll have a lot of good
conversation, which is what we're hoping to hear from you mostly today. Although there'll be a lot
of me talking too.
So as far as the agenda goes, we've got three main things even though there's a whole bunch of
slides in there. We're going to just give a very high level overview of what we're doing with
Reimagine RTD. We're going to go over the system optimization plan process, and that's the bulk
of the presentation today. And then we can talk a bit about next steps as well.
So the Reimagine RTD process has really two primary objectives. The first one is more near-term,
and it's the system optimization plan deliverable. This is what we've been primarily focused on
through the process since the fall of last year, and it really is looking at taking RTD's resources,
and how might we allocate your resources in a different manner to ensure that we are making the
very best connections and most efficient system to meet the needs of the region. And then the
mobility plan for the future is looking longer term. And when we think about RTD's role in
mobility, we know what you do today, but as we have emerging technologies and our world has
been changing as far as mobility goes, what is your role in the future? So we haven't touched on
that too much just yet, but that is the second primary deliverable.

This next graphic I know you've seen before, but it tries to illustrate how all these different things
come together. And it also illustrates some of the other RTD initiatives that you're taking on and
where they fit into the process. So one thing you'll notice on here-- of course, when we started the
process back in the fall, we had no idea that COVID-19 would be upon us in 2020. And so we've
added-- you'll see the middle blue color. We've added the circle that talks about COVID-19
response support. So while the whole first part of the process, we didn't know that this was here,
we have really done a lot of adjusting the course of the project to ensure that we are providing
good results to RTD and we are as responsive to this COVID-19 change as we can be.
So let's dive into the system optimization plan. This next graphic-- we've tried to summarize it into
five primary steps for this system optimization plan process. And we're going to talk about each
one of these steps. And we've taken each one of these steps to-- other than getting to the final step,
which is the recommendation, we've taken each one of these to the Technical Working Group and
the Advisory Committee. And we've asked for their input to help us guide this process. And we're
going to be talking about the results that we've heard, the key input that we've heard from the
Technical Working Group, and the Advisory Committee today through the presentation.
So step one, we started talking about what does a successful transit system look like? Can you go
back up to the five, Annie? Thank you. What does a successful transit system look like?
Two is how do we measure that? How do we know if we've achieved success? Three is developing
scenarios and evaluating them to see if we hit those metrics of what we thought success looked
like. And that's really to help us understand trade-offs. And then developing service investment
philosophies to balance these competing-- sometimes competing interests and really to help us find
an appropriate balance between alternative approaches to resource allocation.
Go ahead, Annie. I think our-- how we approach fiscal constraint has-- we've really shone a light
on that right now. So that's become a big piece of this, though these early slides, you'll see, were
outside of our immediate COVID fiscal ability. But then we're going to bring it down into that as
well.
So let's go through those steps in more detail. And again, we have three groups. It's the Technical
Working Group, the Advisory Committee, and sometimes we've also been able to connect with
the Citizens Advisory Committee as well. So in step one, what does success look like, we went to
the committees, and we asked them to participate in an exercise we called a snow card exercise.
They get sticky cards, and they write-- they tell us what success looks like.
We did not limit them to just thinking about what success of RTD looked like. We asked them to
think about a transit agency in an urbanized area. What does this look like? What does success
look like to you? Tell us what that might include.
They then worked in small groups to try and identify the three highest priorities for themselves.
And then they put them up in some broad categories here. And we show an example of this where
we can't see the whole thing. But it says improve service quality. So any time they had a snow
card, the yellow sticky note, that they felt fell-- the category fell under the main category of
improving service quality-- they put their snow card in that category.

And then we topped that exercise off with the job exercise. And we said now that you've seen all
these categories and ideas that the groups have come up with, which of these identifications of
success most resonates with you? And we asked them to put their top three-- identify their top
three categories. So you can't compare to others, because we've only got one example up here. But
improving service quality was top of the list. People felt like that was very important.
And some of the key takeaways in general were that people felt that it was important to have
competitive and reliable service, frequent service, serving transit-dependent populations-- and
that's probably not quite the right wording there, but that is the wording that we used in that
particular group. Partnerships-- they talked about the need to achieve high ridership, the ability to
travel throughout the district, and reducing emissions. So those were the main things that we heard
at that first meeting when we asked them about success.
Now, one of the other things that we tried to tag onto that was, OK, this is what success looks like.
Help us understand how you might measure that. So when we went to the second meeting, the
second round of meetings, with the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee, we
reviewed about 30 different metrics, ways that you might measure if you've achieved what you set
out to achieve or not, because as you all know, there's a lot of ways to slice and dice the numbers.
And we wanted to make sure that we understand when you say-- when you say ridership, that's
pretty clear what you mean. But when you say serving social equity populations, that might mean
something different to myself than it does to you. So let's make sure we're all speaking the same
language.
So we reviewed about 30 metrics. And we had them vote on those that they felt would help us
understand if we had measured and achieved success best. This also helped us narrow down from
having such a giant set of metrics that the result gets lost, and we all look like we're all a C average
because we have so many metrics where we can dial into those that we think are the most important
metrics for us to measure. So you can see along the bottom, these are the metrics that they identified
as being the most key to measuring success.
And let's just quickly go over those. The first one-- the first two really-- can you go back up,
Annie? The first two really relate to that service quality initiative. And this is talking about a
percent of the population served by 15-minute or better service is number one. And then this
second one is transit time versus auto travel times. The second one is percent of equity population
served and the percent of the equity population served by 15-minute or better service. So this is
really how well do we serve those equity populations.
Then if we're talking about productivity, these are measures that you all have seen before, but cost
per boarding. And I think it's important that we talk about this is not about fares. This is not how
much the person is being charged. But this is the cost to RTD for the boardings that they're
achieving on the system. Then the boardings per service hour. And then the last two are really how
much coverage do we get around the system. So this is percent of the population within the district
served and the percent of the employment in the district served.
OK, so let's go on to the next one, Annie. So from all this information, we developed four scenarios.
And the four scenarios-- I think this is an important piece of this process. I know you've seen these

four scenarios before, but I think it's important that we just reiterate this. They are not alternatives
that you would pick from, but they are really designed to help us, again, understand trade-offs
between different investment strategies and how you might balance resource allocation.
I describe RTD as getting pulled in about a million directions. Everybody wants a little bit of your
money, you know? If only there was a whole bunch more money to go around, that would be fine.
But at the end of the day, we have to figure out the appropriate resource allocation. So this is trying
to help inform what might work best for RTD.
So we developed four scenarios. We're going to talk a little bit about those today. Social equity
was the first one, where we took the resources you have on the ground today, and we really tried
to look at where the social equity populations live and work. And we tried to focus service on
providing rides, good, high-quality rides to the social equity populations.
The other one is service quality. We tried to focus high quality service on [AUDIO OUT] corridors.
Geographic coverage-- we tried to spread it out a little throughout the region and see what
happened. And then we tried to maximize service productivity. I refer to this one as capturing
every rider you can for every dollar that the district spends.
So we're going to talk a little bit more about those scenarios and then the evaluation of those
scenarios today. It's probably also worth noting that when we talk about those scenarios, they were
built to within the 8% line of the 2019 budget. So these are higher than the amount of money you
have to work with certainly next year. They are not too focused on capital investments. There are
a couple of times where we talk about the need to bring a hub together, and there would be some
capital required. But for the most part here, we're really talking about service hours and reallocation
of your bus network and what that would look like. I think that's probably good for there.
So the next thing we-- well, let's go-- sorry, back up one, Annie. We do this for security purposes,
but it does make it a little-- so that we're not moving around the presenter. But it doesn't make it a
little less smooth. So sorry about that.
We did ask the groups, the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee group, about
when we're developing these scenarios, what are things that-- opportunities and challenges-- that
we should be considering? And these just give-- I mean, there was-- we've received so much input
from these groups. But these are some of the key takeaways. I'd say every time we meet with these
groups, they talk about the need to partner-- partner with them. RTD partnering with those local
agencies they feel is really important.
There's also been some dialogue around focusing on regional services. They talked about
identifying hubs to better enable the suburb to suburb travel, prioritizing poor, low density over
affluent, low density areas. So this is again getting to that-- serving those social equity populations
is important. Longer spans of service to provide better service to shift workers and focus on access
to jobs and social opportunities.
So this map illustrates our first round of scenarios that were developed and taken to the Technical
Working Group and the Advisory Committee. And this gives you the definition of that, which

we've just talked about, and some of the scenario objectives. The first scenario is focused on
service quality. And we really tried to take your resources and focus them, focus your resources
on providing very frequent and fast service to a select set of transit supportive corridors.
Then the second scenario is the social equity scenario, number two. Can you go back up one,
Annie? The social equity scenario. And this is focusing the resources in a manner that emphasizes
transit service to those equity focused populations and zero car households. So this is really looking
at low income minority groups. We also looked at zero vehicle households. For this piece, there
was also some consideration given to older adults, students, people that may have disabilities that
might need service. But the focus for this was really around low income, minority, and zero car
households.
Then the third scenario that we developed took the resources and tried to focus them on
productivity. So here we were trying to get those travel markets to match the potential ridership.
This is, again, the one where I say if I put a dollar in, I want to get as many riders out of that dollar
as I possibly can. And if that is my goal-- as RTD, if you said that was your goal, what would a
scenario like that look like?
And then the fourth scenario is the geographic coverage scenario. And this is where we looked at
spreading service out across the district. And this was really in response to-- there's just a lot of
dialogue around this. What does it look like if we have service more spread out rather than focused
on, you know, very frequent and fast corridors? What if we put more service out in the suburbs?
What does that look like in a fiscally constrained environment? So that's what this scenario will
help us understand what we can capture in that context.
Now, we took all of these scenarios to the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee.
We presented them, and then we allowed them-- we asked them to provide us input on them. We
also took them to the service development Group and asked for their input as well. And then we
made modifications to that first round, and we started the evaluation process of those.
And we have a slide here for questions, but I think questions might be more meaningful if I get
through the metrics. So I just have a couple more slides, unless somebody's got a burning question
that they want right now or comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Holly, this is Director Malpiede. If I could, I'd like for you to go
through the whole presentation. I would like to ask the Directors to write down their questions and
comments, and then when you're done, I will call on everybody alphabetically.
HOLLY BUCK: OK. That's perfect.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
HOLLY BUCK: That's perfect. Thank you so much, Chair. So I'll go through these, and then
maybe-- let me just check here. Let's go through these, and then maybe we can, before we start the
voting exercise, we could go around the horn if that works for you, Chair. And then we probably
want to go around again if that works for you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course.
HOLLY BUCK: OK, great. OK. So some preliminary results. So we took those four scenarios.
We got input from the Technical Working Group, the Advisory Committee, the Service
Development Group. We refined them, and then we conducted the evaluation of them. And here
are those metrics that we talked about as being really important for measuring if we've achieved
success or not. And here's the results.
So the first, up in the top left, we've got the percent of the population served by 15-minute or better
service. So remembering that when we're talking about existing service, we're talking about a 2019
system that has 8% more resources associated with it. So it's not quite an apples-to-apples
comparison, but I think it's nice to have the comparison there just to give you a sense of where we
are.
So when we talked about the percent of the population served by 15-minute or better service, you
can see that our service quality scenario and our social equity scenario, both capture over 30% of
the population is served by that. What we're referring to is that high quality service with 15-minute
or greater service.
Our geographic coverage is on the lower end of being able to capture that. We don't have as much
15-minute or better service, because we've spread the services around the district. So about 18%
of the population has access to the 15-minute or better service.
Now, counter to that, the percent of the equity zone population-- so when we're talking about low
income, minority, zero vehicle households, we serve the most people with that geographic
coverage because we've provided some level of service through a whole bunch of the districts. So
we're able to cover a lot. And you can see that the service quality, the social equity, and the service
productivity, they're all kind of hovering here in the mid 70s.
When we talk about the percent of the equity zone population covered by 15-minute or better
service, here you can see the social equity scenario really allows-- we've really focused high quality
service to the populations that are perhaps most in need of the services that you provide. So 56%
of those people identified in the category as being low income, minority, or zero vehicle
households-- 56% we're able to capture with that social equity. The service quality also does pretty
good at about 50%. But here, counter to the social equity, the whole population served, only 28%
under the geographic coverage get that high-quality service.
Moving down to the bottom two, these are the percent of the population served in the employment
in the district served. And you can see that your geographic coverage, you've spread that service
throughout the area. So you get a lot of jobs and a lot of people with some access to your transit
services.
So let's look at then-- the next slide shows us some of the results. So what does all this mean? OK,
you've spread service out. You kind of confined it to a certain area. What happens to ridership?
What happens to transit travel times compared to auto travel times? Some of those key metrics that
measure on the results end.

So starting up in the upper left-hand corner, when we talk about the comparison between the travel
time it takes for transit versus auto travel time-- now, this metric we want to be low. The other
metrics we've talked about, we've wanted to be high. This particular one we want to be low,
because we want that transit travel time to be competitive with the auto travel time.
So here, you can see that our service quality-- when we're providing high quality, 15-minute or
better service the best we can, that travel time comparison does pretty good. So we're at 2.96 for
service quality. We go up to 3.2 when we go to that geographic coverage. So our travel time
competitiveness when we spread the services out isn't quite as good.
Moving over to the right side, the boardings per service hour-- and this is one that you all have
seen from your Service Development Group and what they evaluate every year for all the routes.
We're on the very high end. We have a lot of boardings for every service hour you provide. You
get quite a lot of boardings up in the 31, 32 with the first three scenarios. But it drops down to 26
and 1/2, 27 when you got to geographic coverage. So this is travel times aren't quite as competitive,
so the service is less attractive to people, and they're less likely to get on the service.
Then on the bottom row, we have the cost per boarding. And here you can see that the service
quality-- and then actually if we go over to the right-- let's jump over to the right so you can see
the boardings. The weekday boardings, about 404,000 for that service quality scenario on the high
end. On the low end, the geographic coverage scenario is capturing about 361,000 boardings.
Today-- well, not today. Today, pre-COVID, your 2019, you're somewhere around-- you know, it
varies day to day, but somewhere around 370,000 boardings per day.
Now, the model-- just so you have some faith in the modeling results that you're looking at here-estimates that your system captures about 385,000 boardings a day. So it's calibrated to within
about 3.5%. So the model does a really good job understanding who and when, who's getting on,
when they're getting on, and how many people are getting on, on your system.
And then if you go back to the left, you can associate the cost and then it's to the boardings. And
you can see because you have a lot of boardings on that service quality, you have a low cost for
boarding to RTD at 3.66, and it goes up to 4.3 if you go to that geographic coverage scenario.
So this is really just some of those key takeaways. Let's just go through these again. And then we
can open it up to questions and dialogue and then go through and into the voting exercise. And I
think we're supposed to wrap up at 4:00 so you can hear from the Leeds group So the service
quality-- a recap. It results in the highest level of boardings, the lowest cost per boarding, and the
best travel time ratio.
The social equity resulted in the most social equity populations served with that high quality
service, that 15-minute or better service. And it has the highest boardings per service hours. So it's
efficient. You're capturing a lot of people for the service you're putting out. The service
productivity, I feel like we really tried to push the resources one way or the other. But I would say
in a lot of your key metrics, it was very similar to the social equity results. So I didn't see huge
shifts when we looked at that service productivity scenario.

The geographic coverage, you have some level of service to the population and the most population
employment served, because you've really done some good coverage of the district. But
unfortunately it captures the fewest boardings and the lowest equity populations served with that
high quality, 15-minute service. And it has the highest cost per boarding to RTD. And you can
have some-- you can go back and look at those other charts if you want some more metrics.
So, Chair, would you like to go around with questions?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you so much. I'm going to start with Director Broom.
Director Broom, do you have any questions or discussion? OK, I'll come right back to you. Director
Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Nothing right now that, Madam Chair. Thanks so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. No questions right now, but a lot of food for thought. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi. Thank you. I don't know if my audio is working.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Is the transit versus auto multiplier is 2.96, does that mean that on average the
travel time for transit is 2.96 times what-HOLLY BUCK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: That's pretty dramatic. It's worse than I would suppose. Do you break those
down by mode? So thinking about rail versus Flatiron Flyer versus the bus routes?
HOLLY BUCK: This particular is the whole. And I think Michelle Beana is on the line, and
Michelle may be able to chime in. But the model, we can slice and dice it different ways if you
were interested in seeing that. I don't have that right now though.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, don't worry about providing it right now. But the question is, can you
combine? Can you kind of take the best parts of a scenario in determining where we ultimately go
and combine it with sort of pulling from strengths in each or a couple? Is that something that you
see down the road? OK.
HOLLY BUCK: I think that is-- you've hit it right on the head, Director Cook. I think it's trying to
figure out, of all these ways and places that RTD gets pulled, how do we come up with the right
balance for you and for the district?

SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that answer your questions, Second Vice Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, unless she has some idea about the process. But for right now, yes.
Thank you. Thank you much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Folska, are you on the line? OK, Director
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions right now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis. OK, I'll come back. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just have a question. I know when we talked about the concept of
coverage versus service, people were talking about percentages, like that Houston went from a
certain percentage of coverage to less coverage, but more service. Are we looking at that type of
analysis at all in any of these things in terms of percentages?
HOLLY BUCK: Right. When we go into the trade-offs exercise, you'll see there's-- I would say
it's more of a weighing than it is an exact percentage. One of the things that I think-- you know,
this process is just a little bit more nuanced than just coverage or frequency with the intent of-one of the things we've heard loud and clear from the Technical Working Group and the Advisory
Committee is that the social equity group is a really important group of people for us to consider.
So when we think about that, doing just frequency or coverage doesn't give us enough nuance. We
also need to think about well, not all trips are created equal, that some are social equity trips, and
some are not. And so that is also a piece of what we're doing. So I would not say that we're getting
an exact result of percentage to frequency and coverage. But what we do sort of try and get to that
balance through this process, but not to your exact number.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you, because it's my understanding that it was more nuanced, which
makes me glad.
HOLLY BUCK: Yes. Yeah. I mean, it's nice to talk about it being so black and white, but it's just
not quite as easy as those two trade-offs.
JUDY LUBOW: Now, is Alex Hyde-Wright from Boulder County on the Technical Group?
HOLLY BUCK: Yes. He is.
JUDY LUBOW: Because he had made some comments that under all the scenarios that it looked
like Boulder County was losing-- was basically going to be losing coverage or losing amount of
service and that one of the ways that DRCOG dealt with things is analyzed things sub-regionally.
And I was wondering, has that issue come up? And what was the discussion around that?

HOLLY BUCK: Mm-hmm. So that conversation has come up. So I think that my understanding
is that there was some concern about particular areas losing service. But at this point, we haven't
done we haven't done any by sub-area breakdown. So there's no process for evaluating it by some
subregion.
We can look at that more in the future, but that's not been done at this point. The conversation has
come up around the idea-- one of the things that the Technical Working Group and the Advisory
Committee have asked us about is looking at how RTD works with its fellow agencies and the
counties at the municipal level and the county level. And one of the recommendations has been to
look at DRCOG's process, saying that that might be a process that could work for RTD. We have
not made it that far in the process. We're not there yet. But I think we'll definitely be looking closer
at that and see if that's something that we should be looking at more closely.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much.
HOLLY BUCK: Mm-hmm.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is Director Menten on the phone?
NATALIE MENTEN: I am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, good. Do you have any questions or discussion?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I did come in late, as I had this mid-afternoon meeting, but I don't have
any questions at this point. I'll be taking a closer look. And as Director Catlin said, it's a lot of food
for thought. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions for me at this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just all I can say at this point is, if
complexity is an indicator of a large amount of sophisticated work, then this is certainly evidence
of a large amount of sophisticated work. So, yes, I'll take some time to consider it further, but I do
appreciate the great quantity of good information we have received. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Walker. OK, I will come back to you.
Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Good afternoon. I'd like to thank our consultants for all the work that's gone
into this, and I'd like to thank everybody on the Working Group and on the Advisory Council for
their input that allowed us to get this far. I'm not real sure what we're going to do with it yet, but
at least it's a platform from which to make some decisions. And in this game of life that we're
playing today with no playbook, any kind of basis is good. I'm very interested myself in the social
equity results along with the service quality. So I'll be digesting this, and I'm sure I will be back
with more to say. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you. Director Broom, I'm coming back to you.
Do you have any comments or questions?
BOB BROOM: No questions or comments at this time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. And then I'll just call one more time on Director
Folska to see if she's on the line. OK. I just have one. And, Holly, it won't be of any surprise to
you. But when I think about geographic equity and social equity, I can't help but think about
gentrification, particularly in my district, where people have been pushed out of downtown and
northwest Denver. And a lot of them are being pushed to further places in the district. Have you
guys taken those components into account?
HOLLY BUCK: So the data that we're working from right now is the latest DRCOG data. So it
takes it into account as much as it has been accounted for in the-- I think it's a 2020 model, travel
model. And it was-- I think this land use data set was developed in 2018. So it's pretty reasonably- it's not out of date. I would say that's certainly-- in our industry, that's well within the time frame
of using the data. But DRCOG is actively updating that, and we will use that updated data as soon
as it's available.
But I think more holistically, what I would say is that the next set of exercises that we're going to
go to, to talk about are investment philosophies. I think-- and I'd like to hear back from this group.
As we're trying to develop those philosophies, I think they hold true even with gentrification and
some of those issues that we're seeing. And I think those philosophies can still be the basis for
what your core purpose is and how you allocate your investments. So I think the basis is still
relevant and there.
But you guys tell me. After we get through this-- I mean, we don't have those-- sometimes Bruce
Abel calls them your guiding principles. We haven't developed them yet. These are all just
information to help develop those and make sure that a system optimization plan reflects those to
the best of our ability what you're looking for. But I think those guiding principles would still hold
true. s what your results look like and how many people you're able to capture, that may look a
little different, because if people move out, and they're in less transit-supportive areas, you may
not be able to capture as many riders, or you might not have the travel time competitiveness. But
you would still be pointing towards trying to serve them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Agreed. I can't help but be a little bit worried about post-COVID
and how that will impact these plans as well.

HOLLY BUCK: Mm-hmm.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So you have another question for the board in terms of-HOLLY BUCK: Yes. Well, we have a set of exercises. And we're pretty short on time, so I'm
going to move pretty fast through here. One thing I do want you to be aware of is we went to the
Technical Working group and the Advisory Committee, and we asked them. So all of this is
happening pre-COVID, right? We start this. We start this process pre-COVID. COVID hits, and
we say, we have got to redirect ourselves to make sure that this is still relevant in this COVID
world that we're living in.
So we went back to our Technical Working Groups and our Advisory Committees, and we asked
them, how does-- does the presence of COVID-- now that you know that it exists, how does that
change your perception of what success for RTD looks like? And how do you feel Reimagine RTD
can help maintain the relevance of transit through COVID? And a few of the key takeaways from
this slide-- I think the one that is most important is that longer term, those groups did not feel like
Reimagine RTD the goal changed in the long term. But they did feel that COVID-19 could impact
your short-term focus.
And in the short term, they made a very clear case that serving those transit-dependent populations
was essential. And they came back to us, and they said, not only is this essential, but you have got
to take the data that you know and what you know about their travel patterns and not just ensure
that you have service that runs by their house, but that they have good service and they have service
that's actually taking them to where they need to go. And so that has been a real focus of-- this
next step forward, what we're working on is making sure that we understand those travel patterns
the best we can. So we've been working with the Service Development Group and Bruce. And we
have tons of location-based services data to help us understand that as well.
So then the next-- and there's some other good points in there, but I'm not going to go through
those. We went through a couple of exercises to understand some of the sentiments of the
Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee. And this is where we'd like some of your
insights as well to add to this. We asked the Technical Working Group, you've given us these
metrics that you think are the most important for measuring success. When you think of the scarce
resources that RTD has during this COVID-19 period, what do you think RTD should focus on?
They talked about those equity zones, equity zone populations. They talked about making sure that
they're provided 15-minute or better service. And they talked about access to jobs. So those are
really-- now, there's also quite a few people talking about just overall ridership. So that's the results
on that particular exercise.
If we go down, we asked them, those four scenarios, take those four scenarios, and as Director
Cook said, if you wanted to take pieces and parts from those four scenarios and make your system
optimization plan-- you have 100 points. I want you to allocate your 100 points to those four
scenarios. And here was the result of that. On average, the Technical Working Group allocated 36
points to that social equity scenario, 30 points to fast and frequent high quality service, 21 points
to being cost-effective, and 13 points to providing coverage throughout the district.

Now, the next exercise is a set of-- this is where you're going to use your Mentimeter. And Annie's
going to pull those up for us here. So hopefully you have your cell phones handy. And you can get
to menti.com. And put in the code.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Can you see it, Holly?
HOLLY BUCK: I can. Yes.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: OK, great.
SHELLEY COOK: Can this also be done on a desktop?
HOLLY BUCK: It can be done on a desktop. Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I'm on.
HOLLY BUCK: OK. So I would recommend that-- so first, what we're asking you here-- we're
going to do this two times. We're going to do it once with scarce resources right kind of now in
the next year time frame responding to this COVID response. And we want you to read each of
these philosophy statements and rate how strongly you agree or disagree with these philosophy
statements. Then we're going to do the exercise again in a post-COVID world to understand how
you might change your philosophy to allocating resources when you have less of a [AUDIO OUT]
constraint. I would suggest you read through all of them before you vote, because there's nuances
to each of the wording there that you're going to want to think about. So we'll give a few minutes.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Right. And just so the board and everybody's aware, this is more just
getting a sentiment on how you agree or disagree with these philosophy statements. And it is not
a vote, but just rather letting us know kind of where your priorities lie.
KATE WILLIAMS: And there's no hidden meaning to the colors, right?
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Correct.
HOLLY BUCK: No, no, there's no hidden meaning to the colors.
KEN MIHALIK: And for those of us that are just on the phone, are you able to give us the survey
number?
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Yes. Yes. So if you are on your phone and you are on menti.com and it's
asking for the passcode, the passcode is 609245. 609245. And right now the results are hidden.
And when we get most everybody in, then we'll display those.

SHELLEY COOK: Is there a Submit? I don't-- this is Shelley. Sorry. I can't scroll on my screen.
What that ends up doing is moving the little dot. So I can't tell if below that second item there is a
Submit button. I can't see it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: There is for mine, Director Cook. Down at the bottom, there is a
Submit.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, there's actually like five items, Shelley.
SHELLEY COOK: Ah. Well, I can't-- maybe it's a Tab. Let's try a Tab. Oh, that worked. OK. Tab
works. Thank you.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: It looks like we're about halfway there. Let's go ahead and show the
results. Perfect.
HOLLY BUCK: Good.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: You want to move on, Holly, to our next one?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah, so I think these are interesting, and I am anxious to show you how you
compare to the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee. So now let's do the same
exercise. The words are exactly the same, the trade-offs, whether you strongly agree or disagree
on same. But on this round, you're going to think into the future beyond this immediate COVID
time frame how strongly you agree with the statements that are made here. So hopefully you're
feeling less fiscally constrained in, say, five years, and you're able to think more broadly about the
services you provide. So go ahead and answer the questions under that scenario.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: It looks like Menti's having a little bit of an issue. So I apologize.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, it told me I already voted when I didn't. It was fibbing.
HOLLY BUCK: Uh-oh.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Were you able to correct that?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I just hit Refresh about three times, and now it's come back again.
HOLLY BUCK: OK. Did you let them know, Annie? Gretchen and-ANNIE MCFARLAND: I'm trying to.
HOLLY BUCK: OK.

DOUG TISDALE: Out of curiosity, may I ask, is this just a Board vote, or is it a more Board and
staff vote?
ANNIE MCFARLAND: No, only the Board is voting. So we're catching it at 12 votes is how
many we should be having.
KATE WILLIAMS: I want to sell my votes to any of the senior leadership team that want to buy
them.
[LAUGHTER]
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Going rate for many votes.
DOUG TISDALE: We can have an auction.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: [LAUGHS] All right, let's go ahead and show those results. Hmm. So
with that, we will-HOLLY BUCK: OK. Oh, can we still see our results? No. I'll give you a bit of feedback here. It's
going to be hard, because you can't see both. But let's go down to the-- ooh, is this-- which one is
this?
ANNIE MCFARLAND: This is thinking into the future.
HOLLY BUCK: And this is Board.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Board.
HOLLY BUCK: OK. OK. So let's go back, Annie, if we can and just talk very quickly about what
we're seeing on the immediate COVID response if we can. Well, here. You can stop here. That's
fine.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: OK.
HOLLY BUCK: So with scarce-- we asked, with scarce resources due to COVID-19, and we asked
the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee how they felt about exactly the same
questions that you just saw on a scale of 1 to 4 And I was going to give you a few items that stood
out that were different. I would say this top question where we're trying to maximize ridership
compared to the social equity populations, this one landed in the center for just about everyone in
this current COVID response. So 2.4. The board came in at 2.4 where the Advisory Committee
and the Technical Working Group were around 2.2 and 2.5. So you were all fairly similar.
When we go down to the next one, prioritizing service in areas with transit-supportive land use,
over service that is distributed throughout the district, you can see that both the Technical Working
Group and the Advisory Committee absolutely were aligned. I'm not sure if you can see this on
your screens, but they are very aligned in that they want to prioritize service to transit-supportive

areas. And the way you can see this on this graph is see how it's very low on the left side here, and
then this pink jumps up? This means that everybody was voting right about over here in that 3 and
4 range. Same when we're talking about the Technical Working Group.
DOUG TISDALE: We're not seeing what you're describing, Holly.
HOLLY BUCK: Annie? Are you seeing the Technical Working Group and the Advisory
Committee slides?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Holly, we have a couple of Directors who are on the phone and
not at a computer screen. And I think it's Director Mihalik and Director Tisdale if I'm correct.
HOLLY BUCK: OK. So you should be able to see them in your-- these are in your slide packet,
and it would be-- I'm pretty sure it's page 33 in your slide packet.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: And it might just be quite faint. But there's, like, almost a watermark for
each of these colors. It's faded in the background, and what it's showing is how the votes are
distributed. So what Holly was saying is if you can't see it, I'll try and move my mouse. But there's
nobody voting over here. And everybody-- it really picks up right in here towards the [AUDIO
OUT].
HOLLY BUCK: Mm-hmm.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: So, Holly, I'll try and move my mouse if you want to talk to that.
HOLLY BUCK: Yes. OK. So similarly, we asked almost a converse question in that question 3. I
think it's in red in your packet. Prioritized coverage throughout the district over high quality, high
frequency network of service-- you can see that the Advisory Committee and the Technical
Working Group are pretty well aligned with they don't want to do that. They want to see a high
frequency, competitive travel time service, a high quality service network over service throughout
the region. So they voted that that was-- they strongly disagreed with that statement. Compared to
the board which rated that up at a 2.7.
Although I'm going to see if I-- so a little bit different. And I'll try and put all-- we'll try and put
all these summaries together so you can dive into these and look at the differences, because I think
they're very interesting. Gretchen, are you out there?
GRETCHEN: Yep.
KATE WILLIAMS: Is that a personal question?
[LAUGHTER]
HOLLY BUCK: I'm wondering if-- I saw somebody saying on the chat if they wanted to pull
something else up on the screen, but I don't know if that's going to work. OK. So let's keep going
through these. You were very similar to the Technical Working Group and the Advisory

Committee when it came to maximizing the number of people-- oh, wait a minute. Did I skip one
here? Prioritize service for equity populations over achieving a low cost per boarding metric-- very
high for both the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee in this scarce resource
time. So they do feel it's very important to serve those social equity populations.
And you were middle-ish, a little less emphatic on that at about 2.8. The Board came in at about
2.8. If we go to the second to the bottom on the green, you can see from the lines where the green
come in here, I would say that the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee were
not well aligned with each other on this one. Maximize the number of people in jobs with access
to transit service over high quality, high frequency service to social equity populations-- they were
sort of in the middle on that, and you all were too.
And then the last one here, we have prioritize providing regional transit backbone and support
partnerships where local communities would pay for and operate local service. 2.7 and a 3.2 for
the Advisory Committee, and you all were very well aligned, coming in at 3.7. So you were very
strongly supportive of that.
So let's go. We're at 4:10. We have a drop dead at 4:15. But I would like to look at those future,
post-COVID results as well if we have a minute for that. So again, on this top one, I would say
you can see from the-- so this is slide 34. You can see from the color of this bubble here-- again,
not well aligned one way or the other. The Technical Working Group came in at 2.6 that looks like
and a 2.3. The board came in at 3, so a little bit more well aligned in supporting ridership, just a
high ridership number over necessarily serving those social equity populations.
When we look at this second one down, again you can see very well aligned with the Technical
Working Group and the Advisory Committee that they would like to see us prioritize service in
areas with transit service, transit-supportive land uses over distributing it throughout the district.
It comes in at 3.3 and 3.2. You all, the Board, came in a little bit lower at 2.7, so not as well aligned
around really providing that service to the transit-supportive areas.
This is the question that asks it a little bit conversely. Again, the Technical Working Group and
the Advisory Committee were fairly well aligned in they did not prioritize service throughout the
district, the coverage scenario, where you all came in-- you moved this up to a 2.8. You all came
in much farther to the right.
The yellow, prioritizing service for equity populations over achieving that low cost, again, similar
to the immediate COVID response. The Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee
are quite well aligned up in the 3 and 3.4 area. The Board came in a little bit lower at 2.6, so less
strongly in favor. And then on this second to the last one, you came in a little higher, up at 3.2.
And you again rated those partnerships quite high at the 3.4 level.
And I think this is so much information to take in. I'm assuming you'll want to see all the data,
your results, and the results of the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee. So
we'll package this all together and get it out for you to look at. And then we can circle back and
ask questions and ask new philosophy statements as well. So this gives you some of the key results

and takeaways. And we want to go around and ask questions if we have time. I know we're super
short on time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'd be happy to. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No questions at this time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Can everybody put their phone on mute? Thank you.
Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No, I do have questions, and I'll ask them offline for
the sake of time. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much, sir. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I agree with Director Cook that I would be anxious to see
some hybrids of all of these. But thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: None now. Thank you. I'll do it offline.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I will ask again if Director Folska is on the phone by
any chance. OK. Hearing none, Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll pass for now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just one comment offering up as we look at the outer skirts of the Regional
Transportation District and the options that if we should direct our focus to transit-supportive areas,
there seems to be much of this social equity discussion, and then add in the factor of a question
that, on its face, states that local governments may have to supplement local transportation, the
taxpayers may view this as double taxation. So with that question that was presented to us-- and I
don't know the phrasing right in front of me. But it was the fifth or sixth question, the last one.
Unless there was a shift of RTD then sending that money to that local government, I could easily
see where some outskirts may feel like, again, double taxation, and why would they be paying a
RTD tax. So I bring that comment up.
HOLLY BUCK: Mm-hmm. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.

KEN MIHALIK: No questions for me. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I think as some of the other Directors
have said, I'd like to follow up with some questions offline, but not at this moment. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Director Walker. All right, I will go on and
come back to you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions for me at this time. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Uh-oh. Yes. I think that I just today was talking to some people about a newly
released funding opportunity that is designed to allow major agencies to interact with community
partners in under-served areas. And if Bill Sirois is on this call, I need to talk to you about that.
Because I think that's what we need to do. It's pretty obvious to all of us that we are not able to do
the kind of service that we have done in the past and that we need to look at ways to partner to
provide service to areas that need it in conjunction with the people who live there and the agencies
who serve those areas.
Boulder's done some really interesting work in that, and they have set some good models. Seems
to me that the last Advisory council I was on, as soon as that came up, one of the mayors of our
partner agency said, we don't have any money either. So I get that. But we need to look at new and
different things, and that's what this group is about. So that's all I have to say at the moment.
Somebody find the Mute Kate button.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. OK, I'm going to go back to
Director Walker. Are you on the line? OK. That concludes everybody. I do have some questions,
but I will take them offline as well. Is there anything else from the RTD Reimagine team?
HOLLY BUCK: There's several other items in your packet. We were so optimistic about
everything we were going to get through. We need you for a whole day apparently. But we will
cover those the next time we get together. So if there are questions there, please let us know. And
we'll be prepared to cover those next time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you so much for your time. And this has been
really valuable information for the Board to look at. So thank you.
HOLLY BUCK: Thank you for allowing us to come.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course. Seeing no other discussion, we'll move to our next
item. And our next item is for the CU Leeds forecast discussion. And for this discussion, what I'd
like to do is turn it over to our Chair of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee, Director
Cook. Director Cook, I'm going to go ahead and let you introduce this topic.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you very much, Chair. So late last week, we received an updated
forecast from our Leeds forecasting group. This we're referring to is the June forecast. And because
it varied fairly significantly from the May forecast, Chair Rivera-Malpiede asked the folks who
are the authors of those forecasts and reports to be here or be with us tonight so that we could ask
questions. I don't know who we have on the call.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Heather. I can go ahead and introduce them.
SHELLEY COOK: Please. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. I wanted to let you know that we had sent
out four pieces of information to you today. One was a memo from myself that discusses the
information that we received from Leeds. The other is a comparison of the pre-COVID May and
June forecasts. We then had the spreadsheet from Leeds and also an informational item that they
sent from Wells Fargo.
So with that, I was just going to open it up. Brian Lewandowski, Richard Wobbekind, and Robert
McNown are all on. And if I can-- I think I see them all on. So I was going to turn it over to Brian.
And, Brian, if you could just give us a brief update. And then, Chair, we'll have time for questions.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Thanks, Heather. And I'll spend about five minutes offering an
update, and then our entire team is happy to take some questions from you. So Heather really
reached out to us and asked how our forecast could have changed and turned less pessimistic over
the last month and a half. And so I provided this background that I'll share with you now. When
we began our model update in late April, we were working with February collections. So that was
really pre-COVID. And RTD was able to provide initial estimates for March RTD sales and use
taxes. The initial estimates were 40 million, which was a decrease of 16% year over year and
10.9% month over month. So it showed a really sharp decline for the month of March, and that
was a month where we were only partially under statewide lockdown.
The actual receipts, we learned about a week later, came in slightly higher. Instead of 40 million,
it was 40.25 million. So this wasn't a significant enough change to rerun the model. It wouldn't
dramatically change our forecast. But the finance team shared with us that there was 6.7 million
that was supposed to be collected in March that was shifted to April because of delayed payments.
So moving those receipts back to March aligns the collections back to the period when the activity
occurred, which means the March receipts were only down 1.5% year over year and were up 4.6%
month over month. So what really appeared to be a situation where RTD's collections were being
impacted early compared to the market, it was instead a case of delayed payments.
And then for April, it was initially reported that receipts declined 10%. But we were working with
this strange delayed payment data. So we moved the 6.7% back one month from April to March.
And that made the April collections down 24%.
However, we assume that there is some sort of delayed payment issue continuing to happen, and
some of these payments were shifted from April to May. So we muted that 24% decline for April
and modeled it similar to the delayed payments that we measured from March to April, which

made the year over year decline just 13%. So this was really our new jumping off point for the
modeling. So our jumping off point was less negative than we had modeled in late April and very
early May.
Some other economic observations-- over the past month, personal income has held up better. We
were initially looking at a situation where personal income would be flat or negative in [? 2020. ?]
And now we're seeing that personal income could actually grow and maybe even grow 6% or so
for the year. And that's where Heather provided a report that I found interesting from Wells Fargo
that really does describe what we're seeing happen with personal income and personal consumption
specifically because of the federal stimulus programs that are sending out checks to households.
So most of this increase was due to transfer payments.
We also saw jobs begin to recover faster than initially projected at a national level. So where we
thought there would be a further decline in jobs in May and then a return of jobs beginning in June,
we actually saw that shift one month earlier. And we saw pretty strong growth in jobs in May,
about 2 and 1/2 million.
We also now have Colorado personal income for the first quarter of 2020. We fell below average
for quarter over quarter growth, so from Q4 to Q1. But just to reflect on the past a little bit, for full
year 2019, Colorado ranked first for growth at 6.9%. So we were coming off a very strong year.
And in the fourth quarter of 2019, we ranked eighth at 5.2% year over year. So even though we
have slipped in the ranking, we're still 3.3% year over year for personal income growth. And again,
this is a number we think that will hold up a little bit better than initially expected because of the
level of transfer payments from the federal government.
There is a quote that I liked in the Wells Fargo report. It said that consumer spending increased
8.2% in May, which is a record by a country mile. And I think that really states where consumption
has really rocketed back compared to where we were in April, not compared to where we were last
May. So [AUDIO OUT] national retail sales decreased over 20 percent from January to April on
a seasonally adjusted basis and decreased 14.7% from March to April in a single month with
decreases across all 12 major retail categories for the month of April, even groceries and liquor
stores.
Retail [AUDIO OUT] increased 17.7% from April to May. So this is illustrating the snap-back in
retail spending. And we measured increases across all 12 retail categories from April to May. Yet
just note that year over year sales are still down 6.1%. So it's really important to look at the
reference period.
We did see growth year over year in 3 of the 12 retail sectors. Consumer confidence was just
released this morning. It was markedly more positive in June from May, but still notably below
the pre-pandemic levels. The mountain region, which includes Colorado, is lagging the nation's
sentiment, which is different than where we have been for the past 9 or 10 years. We're actually
second or third from the bottom in terms of regional consumer sentiment.
Couple of notes about the baseline scenario that we use for our national forecast that comes from
Moody's-- a couple of questions that we often get is what's your assumption or what's their

assumption about the COVID-19 virus and how we'll see some sort of resurgence this fall or this
winter. One thing that Moody's notes underlying their forecast is that while there may be an
increase in the number of cases, they are not assuming that the virus will come back and cause
businesses to shut down like what we just went through in March, April, and May.
And so I think that's a downside risk when we're looking at the RTD forecast is what we're
observing right now with the state of Colorado closing bars again today. If we head into another
situation where we see a real shutdown in the state or the metro area, that's a downside risk to our
forecast that's not being presented to you now. They also assume that a vaccine will be widely
distributed in the summer of 2021. So just wanted to state those two assumptions.
A couple remarks that I wanted to leave you with-- we think that the next two months of receipts
are going to be the most important and the most revealing both for RTD, but more importantly for
us and our modeling, because it's going to tell us how consumers and spending are coming back
within the Denver metro region. And RTD is able to provide us with information about delayed
payments, which we're working into our model. We do think we'll continue to see variations within
our forecast, because there is so much volatility within the economy right now. But we think that
the volatility will be less and less going forward because we're seeing less volatility within the
market.
And we do provide upper and lower bounds for you to see our uncertainty within our forecast.
Heather's team is providing us with May sales and use tax information in early July, around the
8th of July. And what we plan to do is quickly turn that around into another updated forecast for
you. One thing we offered her team in early May was to increase the frequency of our forecasts
and start delivering these forecasts to you monthly so that we can incorporate all of this new
information as it comes in and provide you a more real-time forecast so you're not waiting from
May until September to get an update of expectations. So I will pause there. And we are happy to
take any and all of your questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Mr. Lewandowski. First I'd like to ask Heather if she has anything to
add or amplify on from Mr. Lewandowski's comments there. Heather's maybe away. So why don't
I do this instead? I'll go in reverse order and start with our Chair. Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede,
do you have any questions or comments you'd like to add at this point?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do. Brian, thank you so much for this presentation. I think that I
personally was really shocked when I saw the difference in the numbers. So I will once again
request what I requested of you last Friday, which is a statement to the fact that the difference in
the numbers really had to do with the data that you received. And it's really imperative for me to
have that statement to present to our key constituents and elected officials as we're moving forward
with the governor and the state legislature's new Accountability Committee. I would just request
that respectfully again. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. OK. So, now, bear with me here. I'm going from memory,
because I realized just now I printed out the wrong sheet. But, Director Williams, do you have any
questions?

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. I don't have any questions. Again, I'm back to the
fact that we're-- there's no playbook for what's going on here. And I appreciate the fact that the
gentleman came to us with these changes. And I hope that we will be able to continue to move
with the situation as we encounter more and different changes. So I don't have any questions now.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions. I'll yield my time back to Heather, who was on mute when
she tried to reply. So you can have my time, Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Please go ahead, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I apologize. I'll wait till everybody's done, and I'll answer questions or
make a statement. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Whitmore, given that, do you have a question?
TROY WHITMORE: No. Go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. Director Walker? Maybe on mute? No. I think he says no. OK. Director
Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just to echo what others have said or
probably are going to say, we can't really criticize CU and Leeds for these changes. None of us
have anticipated this. It's a challenge for everybody. I've worked with Rich for a number of years,
and I know that he and everyone there does their best. There are lots of reasons that the predictions
that we made have been changed.
For us, happily some of this is good news. And we'll go from there. And it addresses what I had
said previously when we were talking about making further adjustments to the budget that just
accepting because it's the easy thing to do and to pat yourself on the back and to say let's take the
most conservative approach is not always the right answer. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I'll just say that this is contrary to a lot of the information that I've been reading.
Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: That you've been-- I didn't. I couldn't tell if you got cut off there.
KEN MIHALIK: Sorry. This update is contrary to the information that I'm seeing and reading.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I hope they're right.

SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I still feel comfortable, and a very cautious, conservative stance makes me
feel most comfortable considering the agency's promises, history, current situation. Cautious is the
word that sits in my mind. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I was pretty shocked when I saw the improvement. It looked pretty
extensive. And I realized there's going to be a lot of variability. And we're kind of on a roller
coaster ride and better be prepared for it. But I agree with Director Menten that I think the time
calls for a kind of conservative stance until proven otherwise by the data. And I love the fact that
we're getting data updates much more frequently now. That will be helpful. So thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis? Director Lewis? Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Thanks very much for the updates. I agree. That's really helpful
to have more current updates. It's a crazy time. I was just wondering-- I know that the Leeds team
does projections for a number of different groups. And did you see this kind of variation in some
of those other projections as well?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Some of the other entities that we are forecasting for are cities, and
they collect their [AUDIO OUT] so they were able to make adjustments to their revenue as that
came in. What we're seeing is a variation in sales and use tax collections between these entities.
And so I think that speaks to these different tax bases, what's taxable and what's not taxable in
these jurisdictions, as well as different consumption behaviors within these areas and how
dependent some cities are on tourism. But I think that this new number that we presented to you is
more in line with what we're seeing for these other jurisdictions. I think that the initial number that
we presented to you back in early May was much more pessimistic than what we're seeing in these
other jurisdictions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. And I didn't get a chance to look at some of the material
today, but I did the other day. I spent some time with it. I think that the middle case projections
were-- there was a much bigger variation than in the worst case projections. And I was trying to
understand that. Is there a reason for that? Am I right, first of all?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I think when we looked at it, the middle bound or the point estimate
was revised up as well as the lower bound and upper bound all roughly the same magnitude. I think
they increased about 12 or 13 percentage points for 2020. So I think there is consistency in the
lower, middle, and upper bound.
But if you really take a look at those forecasts, you might notice the medium term forecast that
goes through 2026, that also improved by quite a bit. And instead of RTD recovering to prepandemic levels in 2025, now we're projecting late 2023. And that really has to do with the current
year and 2021. So it's a much higher, much stronger base that we're jumping off from for that
medium term forecast as well. But we did note that there is greater variation, a higher upper and

lower bound than what we normally present to you for a current year, which is really reflecting the
volatility that we're seeing in the market.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's all I have.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska? Director Folska? OK. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. A couple of things struck me as I was listening to
your presentation, Brian. And thank you for that. You mentioned something about personal income
growth was greater than anticipated in part due to the transfer from the feds. And that, as I
understand it, is not going to be sustainable. So have you factored that into your forecast? That's
part one of my question.
And then I'm worried about-- you said that there will not be as drastic a shutdown if there is a
resurgence of COVID. You know, perhaps businesses aren't going to shut down, but I'm a little bit
concerned about consumer behavior regardless of whether or not the businesses remain open. And
as you said, the next two months of receipts will be the most revealing. But I echo Directors Menten
and Lubow's caution that we proceed on a more conservative path to account for some of that
volatility. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I would also echo some of the comments of Director
Catlin. You know, my understanding-- I'm not an economist, but it seems that economic stability
or, alternatively, volatility is often tied to a number of variables. The big one now obviously is
COVID. And our economic volatility is tied-- seems to be tied pretty directly to that. So my
concern is that containment or control of COVID seems to be a key to reopening the economy.
And as we slip back and forth between that-- we've got a lot of reports of a number of states having
incredibly high positive test results recently. And my concern continues to be that if we do have
another wave, another round of shutdowns and business closures and things like that, as Director
Catlin indicated, what's the impact on consumer confidence? And I don't know how you can bring
that down to a number. But maybe you can. I'm sure that's something you're looking at as well,
correct, Brian?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: It is. And-- if I may respond for just a moment, we do note that that
is a downside risk. If we go into another sort of lockdown like what we're experiencing-- like what
we're just coming out of, that will be a second wave or a second hit to RTD sales and use taxes as
well. We have this luxury of being able to take a look at nine different scenarios from Moody's
analytics. And what they do is they really incorporate all of this macroeconomic data and virus
data into their national models, and then we relate how Colorado performs in this national
environment.
What we're able to do, though, is take a look at some of these downside scenarios. So we can look
and select one where we go into a second shutdown late in 2020, and we could model that to see
what happens to RTD revenue in that situation. So that's an exercise that we normally perform for
you. That is what we did in early May-- late April, early May. For this more frequent update, we

just provided you with the baseline scenario, which we think is perhaps the most likely scenario.
And it's modeling a swoosh or a checkmark-shaped recovery.
And so maybe you've heard about the W recovery or the V-shaped recovery. It's really modeling
the Nike swoosh. And so we'll talk with Heather and her team about how helpful it will be to
provide you with some other alternative forecasts that are more pessimistic that could give you a
range of expectations.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I appreciate that. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think we find ourselves with our feet firmly planted
in quicksand. With so many uncertainties out there, we should not make long-term decisions until
things settle down, and that's going to take some time. The other thing that's pretty obvious in the
Denver metropolitan area is that we're very dependent on the hospitality and the airline industry.
And there's reverse multipliers taking place now that are going to impact our economy later on in
the year. And so we need just to be very cautious going forward. Normally I'm very optimistic. I'm
not optimistic right now. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you very much. For myself, I did want to note here that one reason
the municipalities that you mentioned as I understand were able to provide more up-to-date or
minute-by-minute info that helped the models perform better at the outset is that they collect their
own sales tax. And so we need to rely on the Department of Revenue to reflect how we're doing.
And that kind of generated a question for me.
About 10 days ago, The Denver Post reported a similar sort of shift or improvement in the forecasts
for the state. It talked about budget writers learned Friday that the latest projections show
Colorado's general fund taking about $1.34 billion more in 2021 than officials expected as recently
as last month. So is that a function of the same information? Just trying to get a sense for whether
we are simply reflecting changes that we're seeing in some of other entities as well. Mr.
Lewandowski?
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: It's partially taking in the exact same information, because they're
running off the Moody's forecast that showed higher income. And so they ran their models with a
higher personal income number, as Brian was describing to you earlier. I don't know about the
retail sales piece. It could be. Maybe Brian or Robert want to comment on that. But they certainly
ran it off of a scenario with better personal income growth.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks, Mr. Wobbekind, in that case. I guess I'm going to-- I agree with
Director Broom. I think you've made the point that we need to wait and see here. And almost every
day, it seems like some shift happens or something new and unprecedented. The Chair and I
sometimes joke about the new things that we face this year. So I'm with those folks who expressed
a sort of wait-and-see or cautious attitude. So, Heather, I'll give it back to you.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. Thank you. I think you can hear me now. I apologize for being on
mute earlier. I hate when that happens. So yeah, I think we've had these conversations. And I guess
our recommendation too is that we're so close to getting the May information that we look at that
information and feed that information to Leeds. And then they'll be able to rerun their forecasts.
I think we've received, Richard, definitely information from you and Brian and Robert that was
very helpful over the last few days. I think we're still-- as the Chair mentioned, I want to get with
you, Brian, and see if we can get some kind of statement that we can use towards our
Accountability Committee. As you know, that's starting, and we have some concerns there. So I'll
follow up with you on that.
But I would just say, we're going to be doing our best to reassure the Board that we'll be bringing
this information as quickly as possible to you. We're going to try to set some type of path forward,
and then we'll just need to be flexible. And I think this goes to some of the conversation that took
place earlier-- really flexible as we move forward with being able to maybe contract a little bit
more or expand depending on what the numbers look like as we get closer to the end of 2020 and
also '21 to '26 since it's going to continue to be unpredictable. But we will do our best to update
that as quickly as possible so that the board can make a decision on how they want to proceed.
And again, I think it's going to have to be a lot more fluid and flexible than we've ever been. And
being able to address that, I know it's a bit stressful for all of us to have numbers all over the place.
But at the same time, hopefully these numbers are more accurate, and we also will be in a more
positive situation than we were just a few days ago before we got the forecast, because it was pretty
dire as far as what we were looking at for 2021. So with that, I would take any questions or
otherwise, we're done, Chair, for now. And we'll keep the Board posted.
SHELLEY COOK: Rather than go around again, I would just offer up if you have a question, state
your name, please, and then I can call on you. OK, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I'll turn it back over to
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Cook. Let me just once again thank
all of you for being on this call. And I'd like to thank the CU School of Leeds for coming in and
sharing this information with us. And I'd also like to thank our staff, because this is an
extraordinarily fluid time for all of us. And we all know that we're dealing with a lot of stressors
that nobody ever anticipated would ever be coming down the road.
And I know that Director-- Second Vice Chair Cook had mentioned we have this running joke.
And I had first said that it was kind of like being in a segment of a Stephen King novel with twinges
of The Twilight Zone. And I've changed that up to being in a tsunami on a surfboard. It really is
quite extraordinary the times that we're in and the issues that we have to face. And I am really
anxious to see the numbers on July 7 or 8 to see how that looks. But I agree completely with
Director Broom that we're all standing on quicksand.
And I would just like to say it's going to take all of us together to move this forward and to make
sure that we're serving the good of the community and letting the community know that this is
something out of our hands and that it is not just the RTD who is dealing with this issue, but it's

every municipality in the country as well as every transit agency. And this is not just subjected to
us, but that we really need to come together as a region and as a community to support each other.
So I would just like to say thank you for all of your information, and we look forward to our
continued dialogue and information as we move forward. And, Miss McKillop, thank you so much
for keeping your finger on this pulse.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Let me just respond on behalf of the Leeds team. We really appreciate the
feedback from the Directors. I think the caution and erring on the side of being conservative, we
hear that signal. And as Brian suggested, one of our options is to present to you in addition to our
baseline scenario, a more pessimistic one in the next update. And so anyway, we think this has
really been quite valuable to hear from you the perspectives that you have, because you have your
fingers on the pulse of the district economy as well. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. With that, we are adjourned. It is-- I've got
4:56. What about you, Miss Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: 4:52 on my clock.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, cool. We are adjourned.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
ANNIE MCFARLAND: Bye, everybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.
SHELLEY COOK: Bye.

