March 12, 2019
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: --schedule just to prevent a repeat of last week, where we have our guests
staying the entire time before we get to their update. And so we are going to shift to the first two
updates to the first order, and then we'll proceed from there.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So thank you, Mr. Chair. We have two guests here tonight. The first is
Wendy Londa. She's going to do the presentation, as she does on a regular basis every year this
time regarding the Salaried Employees Pension Plan. And then the second presentation is going
to be by Leslie Thompson, who's going to do it on the Union Pension Plan and the status of that
plan.
You just so happen to have me, who is a trustee for the Salary plan, and Doug MacLeod, who is
a trustee for the Union Pension plan. So we'll also, if we can, take questions. But this is our
regular update to let you know where we're at with those plans, and to take any questions that
you may have. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Wendy.
WENDY LONDA: Good evening, everyone. So I'm here to give you an update on the salaried
plan, start off-- it should go like this. Go over the January 1, 2018 valuation highlights. Go into
long-term funding, and then show you some projections of the plan under two different
contribution scenarios.
So let's dive in first to the January 1, 2018 valuation results. As a reminder, the plan was closed
to new entrants starting January 1, 2008. So we're expecting the participant count to decrease
each year as participants move from active status to termination, retire, and, unfortunately, death.
So the participant count decreased by 17 from January '17 to '18. The active population
decreased from 291 to 267.
And just to give you a reference point, the actives as of January 2008, when the plan was first
closed, were 546, so it's decreased by about 51% in those 10 years. The actual accrued liability,
which is the value of all the benefits earned as of January 2013, increased by $12.1 million from
$165 million to $177, and of that $12.1 million, $7 million is due to some assumption changes,
which I'll go over a little bit.
The actuarial value of assets, which is our smoothed value, we recognize gains and losses of the
investment over a five-year period to smooth out the volatility in the market value. That
increased by $8 million from $132 million to $140 million. The unfunded accrued liability,
which is the difference between your smooth value of assets and your liabilities, increased by
$4.1 million.
So our liabilities increased by more than our assets, so there was an increase in the unfunded
amount. And this unfunded amount is amortized similar to a mortgage. It's got to be paid off over
a period of time. And as of 1/1/18, there were 13 years left in that amortization period.

So plan was funded based on the smooth asset value. Let's see. Based on smooth asset value, it
decreased from 79.7% to 78.8%, and this decrease is due to the assumption changes. The funded
ratio based on the market value of assets increased from 79.2% to 81.3%. And that is because of
the great return in 2017, the planet of 14.2% net return, and that compares to our 7 and 1/2%
assumption. So a 6.7% asset gain during 2017.
And the recommended contribution, which is the sum of the cost of benefits earned during the
year, the operating expenses, and then the plan's mortgage payment for the amortization of the
unfunded liability, that increased by $0.7 million from $7.3 to $8 million. And of that, $1 million
is actually due to the assumption changes. So if without the assumption changes, the
recommended contribution would have gone down slightly.
So as I mentioned, we changed some assumptions, effective 1/1/2018. We decreased the interest
assumption from 7 and 1/2% down to 7% to be more conservative, closer to reality. As the plan
matures, we've got fewer actives and more retirees. We want to have more conservative
investments, so we need to reflect that in investment return assumption.
And we also made demographic assumptions changes-- our salary, mortality, how often we
expect people to retire, terminate, et cetera. Those were all updated as well to reflect experience.
So there's been no change in the long-term funding. Since 2016, the recommended contribution
by the actuary, and then the CFO recommends an amount based on the budget, and that is what's
contributed to the plan.
So just to give you a reference point, what I reported last year, January 1, 2017, based on an
estimated return of 14.2% for 2017 and a $5.1 million contribution, the plan was projected to
reach 100% funding by 2031, if all assumptions are met each year, including a 7 and 1/2%
investment return.
So what happened since last year's report? So the actual return was 14.2%, as was estimated. The
plan experienced an asset gain of $3.1 million, a liability gain of $1 million. So those are all
good things for the plan. And then as I mentioned, we updated the assumptions, including the
interest assumption, decreasing from 7 and 1/2% to 7%. And that caused a $7 million increase in
the liabilities and a $1 million increase in the recommended contribution.
So now how does the plan look with our new results as of January 1, 2018. So if we now assume
a $5.1 million contribution and a 7% return each year going forward, the plan is now projected to
reach 100% funding by 2038, seven years later. Since we reported on the valuation, the board
has approved a $5.6 million dollar contribution, so $500,000 increase, for the 2019 fiscal year, a
recommended contribution of $8 million, so a shortfall of $2.4 million.
And unfortunately, the investment return in 2018, as you probably all are aware, was not good. It
was a negative 5.2% preliminary return, versus our assumption of 7%. So when you compare 7%
to the minus 5.2%, that's a 12.2% loss. So that hit the plan hard. So now if we reflect the 2018
return and a higher contribution of $5.6 million-- sorry, thanks. Now the plan, if only $5.6
million is contributed each year, the plan is no longer projected to reach 100% funding.

However, if the recommended contribution is made beginning in 2020, the plan would be
projected to reach 100% funding in 2031, which is the end of, basically, the mortgage period of
13 years. So we'll keep the Board apprised of all this. But let's look at the next page, which is a
graphic illustration of what I've just discussed.
So there's two graphs here. The top graph is the funded ratio. Again, this is the ratio of your
smooth assets to your liabilities. And then the bottom graph is the recommended contribution,
which is the sum of the cost of benefits earned during the year, your operating expenses, and the
plan's mortgage payment, so to speak.
The green bars-- both bars have the same assumptions, with the only difference being what's
contributed to the plan. The green bars assume the recommended contribution is made beginning
in 2020, and the blue bars assume a $5.6 million contribution each year going forward.
You can see in the top graph that the plan is 100% funded at 2031. But with the blue bars, the
plan is holding steady just a little bit under 80%, so the $5.6 million is enough to keep the plan
steady, but starting to go up a little bit towards the end, if all assumptions are met each year,
including a 7% return on assets. And the recommended contribution, you can see with the green
bars, it's fairly steady each year, if the recommended amount is contributed each year.
But if $5.6 million is contributed each year, you can see the recommended amount goes up.
You're contributing less than what's required, so that pushes that off into the future, and you're
paying it off over a shorter period of time, so that recommended amount goes up.
That's basically all I was going to say. We'll continue to monitor the plan each year. We'll update
you based on returns and the census data that we get each year and plan experience. We don't
have anything else here, unless there's any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Miss Londa. I'm looking around. I see Director Broom has a
question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. This is a closed fund. And so, it sounds like, as we move
forward, the 7% assumed rate of return is going to end up being reduced because you're going to
be moving more and more investments into fixed incomes, which doesn't return a high yield.
The district's not going to go out of business in 31. And so, maybe we should rethink that
trajectory and maintain the mix of investments that we have now to capture the higher return
rather than consigning ourself to those lower returns going forward. I don't know. I think it's just
something we need to think about.
WENDY LONDA: Do you want me to respond?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. If you want. Go ahead.
WENDY LONDA: I mean, we did just lower it to 7%, which we think is-- it's really not too
much difference than the 7 and 1/2%, but really more closer to reality than what the plan is

expected to get over the long-term. The investments were changed a little bit. It's not all in fixed
income by any means. There's still a great mix and diversity of investments in the plan, including
international equity and all kinds of asset classes.
BOB BROOM: Sure. Yes. Yeah, I know. I know that's the case. But what I'm saying is that, as
you move forward in time, if you follow the trend of reducing that assumed amount, and you say
that because everybody is retired or close to retirement, we should be, you know, maybe 100% in
bonds rather than a mix, I wouldn't want to go down that route. I don't think that makes sense. I'd
rather keep more of a 60-40 allocation, or something like that, because the district's not going to
go out of business in a few years.
And so we can afford to take that additional risk for that additional return, rather than consign
ourselves to making higher fixed payments because we're constantly shifting into shorter and
shorter, or into more fixed income.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I was just going to say, and that's something we can continue to talk
about at our trustee meetings to see where we want to-- so far, we've not had that discussion
about making that shift right now, because we have a significant number of people still in the
plan. But as time goes on, that would be your normal shift we would do over time, as you got
closer to the plan actually being closed. So we'll just continue to have that conversation at the
trustee meeting.
WENDY LONDA: And then one other comment. The graph looks doesn't look so pretty under
the $5.6 million, but what we can do is basically refinance that unfunded liability, extend the
amortization period to a longer amount. Again, as you say, the district's not going out of
business, so we can pay it off over a longer period of time, which then lowers your
recommended contribution as well. So we can consider doing that as well.
KEN MIHALIK: Anything else, Director Broom? That's a good observation. I don't see anybody
else. And so we'll move onto the Represented Defined Benefit Plan update. Thank you very
much.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. This is Doug MacLeod. As Heather mentioned, I'm a trustee
on the ATU Pension Plan, and Heather had also introduced Leslie Thompson, is from Gabriel
Roeder Smith. She is our actuary on the represented employee pension plan. So she's going to
walk through a presentation on the status of that plan.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Thank you, Doug. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of the
Committee. While this is coming up-- oh, and here it is. Thank you, I think. Wow. OK
So we're going to be talking about January 1, 2018. The fund exists for the future. You may
recall, I think was two years ago when I was here, the fund was projected to run out of money.
And some changes have been made, in particular the additional $6.2 million dollar contribution

that's been going in yearly for this three-year period has made a big difference. It's taken the plan
from life support back to life.
The other thing that happened, in 2017, the plan earned 14.58% return on a market value basis,
and the returns then exceeded the assumption, which is already at 7%. The ATU took that
assumption down a few years ago. The contribution rate, not the $6.2 million, but the rate-- we
have 5% from employees and 13% from RTD-- that is not sufficient to fund the plan. So that's
why the $6.2 million is doing a good job at boosting that funding.
But let me tell you some of the things that came out January 1, 2018. So again, that's a year ago.
The unfunded accrued liability is increasing. There's an increase in the required contribution on
dollar basis. The dollar amount is increasing. But on a percent of payroll basis, it's decreasing. So
depending on which is more important to you, you have those two different results. And the
reason that that's happening is, we have, as you may recall, new hires that come in don't earn at
the same accrual rate. They're not as expensive as the legacy members. That was a result of
Amendment 22.
So we've got a payroll increasing, but the people coming in on that new payroll are not as
expensive. So as a percent of payroll, our costs are going down. The summary that I have there is
that the new hires, Amendment 22, is working to pull down the cost of the plan. However, the
funded ratio, which, salaried we heard was a nice high number-- I've already forgotten what it is.
But I did remember that we're about half of it.
And so that still is, you know, of concern. So expect increasing contribution requirements. I'm
going to show you some of these numbers. Here's the history of the funded ratio. The ATU plan
was above 100% back in the day. So that starts at year 2000. You can see the 2001 tech bubble
hitting. You can see 2008 hitting. And then we flatlined since 2012. Had we not got that $6.2
million, we could have still been decreasing.
So we stopped the freefall. And that's, of course, very good news. Was there a comment? No?
But here's what's been going on. I wanted to show you, starting in 2003, the contribution rate
started becoming insufficient to cover the costs. And when that starts to happen-- and in this
plan, we can't respond immediately, because you go through the collective bargaining process to
change the rates. When that happens, the insufficiency just keeps accumulating year after year,
and you get behind. And you can see that that's what's been happening here when you look at the
relationship between what's required and what's actually being contributed.
Long-term funding reforms were implemented back in 2010, which, oh, my gosh that's like, nine
years ago now. It seems like yesterday. Well, anyway. That's for another meeting. That was
Amendment 22. Did a lot to amend the benefits for new hires. And due to Amendment 22, the
annual costs of the plan have decreased. And they will continue to decrease. It's just that the
unfunded, which is the difference between the total liability and the assets, that is outrunning the
gains. So the increase in costs on the unfunded side's outrunning the gain on the annual accrual
side.

So then, during the collective bargaining cycle, this was negotiated. The 13.5 is still in place.
Again, the 18% is not sufficient. You need more than 22%. I think it's like 22.6% to fund this
plan. So the $6.2 million has been deposited. And I've indicated here what we expect for 2019
may have already happened. And then 2020, and then after that, I put to be determined. And that,
of course, has made a big difference.
I do this every year. Nobody can read this, I know, including me. But you can see, near the
center there, you've got those three numbers. That's the $6.2 million coming in. And where
before, the far column would have shown the funded ratio going to 0, it now ends with a funded
ratio of 65%. It's not the 100% that we hoped for. Because, of course, we want to get our plans to
100% funded. But it's an incredibly better trajectory than what we've had.
And it's because of the extra contributions coming in. You'll note that I did not assume any
contributions after the $6.2 million ends in this collective bargaining cycle. I wouldn't know
what to assume. So that's zero. So to the extent that we continue to get additional funding, it's
just going to help the plan even more.
Now in 2018, as the prior actuary mentioned, this plan to suffered a loss. I don't know the final
numbers in terms of a percent. I would expect this around a negative 4% or 5%, just like
everybody else. And then there's a bounce back in 2019. So these are volatile flat times. That is,
we're not making a lot of headway on the assets, and it's a wild ride.
This is not the teacups. This is Space Mountain, for Disney fans. And then I wanted to show you,
this is a projection of funded ratios. This is stochastic, meaning we did a lot of scenarios to see
how wide this could look. The blue line, you only have a 5% or less chance of getting above
100%. But that's that light blue line on the top. Your purple line is your median, and that still
keeps you at 50%. This is a stochastic process, so the rates are going up and down, and there's
volatility in them.
And then you have a 95% chance of being above 0%. What this graph tells me is that there's a
wide disparity 30 years out on the funded ratio, because investments have gotten so volatile.
Liabilities are not very volatile, but it's the investments that are so making things crazy for
pension funds.
So, in summary-- and this is a slide that shows that Leslie discovered clip art-- the pension
reform, Amendment 22 done now nine years ago, it's working, but the unfunded liability, this
craziness in the assets, is outrunning that particular solution. Again, Amendment 22 affected only
new hires, so we're only solving the funding as we hire new people.
The trust no longer has a depletion date, so that's very good. But one year of poor returns could
change the outlook. We had that year last year, but then we've already had a bounce-back. So
we'll talk about that when you see me next year. Asset gains effect this year and the future. There
were nice gains that will come in the future as a result of 2017.
But I would expect continuing additional contributions will be required past 2021. I'd be pleased
to answer any questions that you have. Director Lubow, you are first.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. What is Amendment 22?
LESLIE THOMPSON: I'm sorry. What was the question?
JUDY LUBOW: What is Amendment 22?
LESLIE THOMPSON: Amendment 22 amended the benefit accrual rate, which was 2.5% per
year, down to 1% per year. So people hired after 2010 have an accrual rate of 1% a year. It also
did other things as well.
DAVE GENOVA: Like the vesting period.
LESLIE THOMPSON: The vesting period. Yep. I had a slide-- hold on-- that summarized it.
JUDY LUBOW: But it's amendment of what?
LESLIE THOMPSON: Of the actual benefit structure.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh. Of the plan benefit structure.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Yes, it's an amendment of the benefit structure. It made retirement five
years later. It eliminated sick and vacation payouts in the final calculation of final average
compensation.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I ask another question?
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely. Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Beginner question. But we were going down to 0, and now we're at 66. Could
you explain what that means in terms of each employee and getting his or her pension?
LESLIE THOMPSON: OK. So that's really a legal question. So I'm going to say right off the bat
I'm not a lawyer. There's no lawyer blood in me. But what it means is, when you get to 100%
funded, that's the ultimate in benefit security, because that means there's enough assets in the
trust right now to pay all the benefits that have been accrued. When you're at 0, there can be
viewed as no benefits security. And the reason this becomes a legal question is because, I don't
know the protections under the state of Colorado for this plan that would mandate that RTD
come in and pay those benefits, even if there's no assets.
JUDY LUBOW: So what about the hybrid of 66? What does that mean?
LESLIE THOMPSON: That means you're on a good path. You're getting there. You're not going
to run out of money in 30 years, but you're still-- that's what that means. The trust is not going to
run out of money, because it'll be 65% funded in 30 years on the accrued liabilities that exist
three years from today. So you're not where you want to be, but you're on the proper trajectory.

JUDY LUBOW: OK. I guess I'm still wondering, if you're somebody with a pension, wondering- you know, I'll probably retire in 20 years. Does this seem to say you'll get your pension?
LESLIE THOMPSON: Well, I'm going to say that it does say that. But the way that it's saying
that is you've got the 18% contribution, the 5 and the 13, and you've got RTD kicking in
whatever is needed. I put that in very general quotes because I cannot speak for what the RTD
will do. So they can be assured they're going to get their pension, because you can be assured of
the funding.
If this were private sector, a participant would be worried. A participant in the private sector
would say, oh, my gosh, by the time I retire, I'm only going to get 65% of my benefit. , That's
what that number would mean in the private sector.
JUDY LUBOW: And how does it mean differently in the public sector?
LESLIE THOMPSON: You're governed under a total different set of law.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. OK. It's complicated.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Well, I wouldn't say it's complicated. It's just a different set.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. All right. Thank you.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Your questions are not beginner, by the way.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh. Thank you.
[LAUGHING]
KEN MIHALIK: You're welcome, Director Lubow. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. This really is a beginner question. You said that
5% employee contribution, 13% RTD compensation. But what is the effective RTD contribution
when you add in the $6.2 million annually?
LESLIE THOMPSON: Oh, I don't know that answer. I didn't bother to do the math.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here comes Doug to save the day.
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. So the 13% contribution on RTD's part is budgeted
at $15.5 million, plus $6.2 million lump sum. So if 13% equates to $15 million, the $6 million is
about half of that, so it's it's probably close to 18%, 19%, RTD's contribution.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's not insignificant in my view. OK. Thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't see anybody else. Thank you, Ms. Thompson. We'll see you
next year.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Heather and Doug.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Thanks again for moving that agenda item.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely. Now we are onto our regularly scheduled program.
[LAUGHING]
We have three recommended actions tonight. The first one reads as follows. It is recommended
by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the revised RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and Procedures Manual or the
Expense Policy, as presented to the Finance Administration and Audit Committee, that the Board
Office staff be permitted to incorporate additional, non-substantive, ministerial, or grammatical
changes, or conforming amendments as necessary without the need for further Board approval
following the Board's adoption of the recommended action.
And this recommendation is consistent with the General Manager's 2019 core goal number two
of strong and ethical leadership. Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Move.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Buzek. And since this was recommended by the Chair of
the Board of Directors, I will turn to him to further elaborate.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Mr. Chairman. Just briefly, as is stated in the staff
memo provided here, it really is not intended in this set of revisions to constitute anything in the
nature of substantive changes, but rather procedural language editorial changes, which is also
why the recommended action, excuse me, would authorize Board staff to incorporate additional
non-substantive ministerial or grammatical changes, so that they don't have to come back to us.
It is the Expense Policy that we're talking about. We'll address Bylaws and things later. This is
just the Expense Policy. And the idea is to modernize and render consistent and appropriate.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. First speaker, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Chair Tisdale, if I could kindly ask you to go
through what exact explicit changes in this policy you are recommending?

DOUG TISDALE: I would request that I not actually go through-- I'm just thinking back to
when the Republicans in the Senate yesterday asked that the Bill be read in its entirety, and so
they got-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I'm asking because of an accessibility issue.
DOUG TISDALE: I know.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So if you could kindly-DOUG TISDALE: No, I understand. I mean, there are a number of changes. They are all-- and
I'll be happy to highlight, for example, it's a question of, I will do one by way of illustration. But
really I cannot burden this record. It's an 18, 19 page document with a lot of changes, principally
reordering of words.
For example, in Section 1.0, instead of saying the District will reimburse Directors, it says
Directors are eligible for reimbursement from the District.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, then I would ask, what's the difference between "will be
reimbursed," or "eligible to be reimbursed?" Because that sounds like what then qualifies a
Director to be eligible in the first place.
DOUG TISDALE: And I would say that there are-- and I'm sorry, Mr. Chair, if I may respond?
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I know. I mean, that's why I'm asking.
DOUG TISDALE: There are a number of changes. There are a number of changes that are
intended to be, hopefully, in most cases, streamlining, providing a uniform system of
punctuation, capitalization, and wording. And with all due respect, I think it would burden this
record if I literally read you 20 pages. Because I would have to read you now 20 pages that we
sent to you five days ago to look at if you wanted to hear all the changes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I'll take it offline and talk to staff, so I guess then, for now, I'll be a
no vote.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. Thank you, Mr. Chairman for obliging that.
Director Walker, you were next.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. At this time, I'd like to make an amendment. OK. So this was
included in the packet as item C. I call it the Walker Amendment. Strange.
[LAUGHING]

Strange to say. So I'll read it for the benefit of the record, and for those who may not be familiar
with it. The red line version of the proposed revised RTD Board of Directors Expense Policy and
Procedures Manual included in the March 12, 2019 Finance Administration and Audit
Committee Packet as follows. Item one, on page six of the red line policy, strike the following
paragraph, "expenses for meals submitted without a proper itemized receipt and documentation
of time, place, and purpose will only be reimbursed $10 at the discretion of the Chair."
Item 2. On page 7 of the red line policy, strike the bullet that states "gratuities, housekeeping,
transportation, and restaurant with receipts." That is the ninth bullet point. And substitute the
following. Bullet one, "gratuities for reimbursable housekeeping expenses with receipts." Bullet
two, "gratuities for reimbursable transportation expenses with receipts."
Bullet three, "gratuities for reimbursable meal expenses with receipts." And item three, on page
19 of the red line policy at the end of the definition of itemized receipt, add the following. "As of
March 2019, expenses of any amount must be accompanied by an itemized receipt in order to be
eligible for reimbursement."
KEN MIHALIK: Is there a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, thank you. I may try something a little bit different than we
did a month ago, when we had a series of these. I just want to get a barometer of people's
inclinations towards this motion.
JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: And we'll get to that comment. I just wanted to get a sense of where people are
at, where the 13 of us are at, with regards to this motion. And so if you are inclined, if you're
inclined to support it-- this is no way binding-- yes, the Walker amendment. This isn't binding in
anyway.
JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE]. There is one section of it that was concerning to me.
KEN MIHALIK: Because it has to deal with, yes, your inclination, I'll allow that. So, yes,
Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE]
JUDY LUBOW: I am sorry. Much better. OK. The idea of everything needing a receipt. I mean I
basically, typically, have that. But I'm just wondering, is it typical for these situations that there
is an amount of money that is considered so de minimis that you don't need a receipt for? Like,
$10 or whatever? And I just don't know what other organizations do. And I was wondering if
anybody does know that?

KEN MIHALIK: That's a very valid question. But we can get to that. And I don't know that I can
answer it, but I do just want to get a sense of your support or lack of support.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I support it, except for that, then. Because it has a bunch of things.
[INAUDIBLE].
KEN MIHALIK: Can we do a quick show of hands, though, just before we-- just in support of
the amendment as read.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We'll get to that. I promise.
[LAUGHING]
OK. Now that I have that, I think Director Lewis was first to state a question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm just curious about the $10 worth of receipts. What's the policy for staff?
KEN MIHALIK: That's a good question. General manager?
DAVE GENOVA: For receipts? The policy is anything above $10 requires a receipt.
JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I'm trying to make one and three work together. It sounds like
the first one says, if you don't have an itemized receipt, you can only be reimbursed $10, and the
second one says, as of March 2019, which is now, expenses of any amount must be accompanied
by an itemized receipt. So I'm not sure how to read those.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I think in the first one, that the idea was to remove the $10-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry. It was striking that-- it strikes that whole paragraph. I'm
sorry. I read it wrong.
KEN MIHALIK: And the purpose of that sort of little informal straw poll was just to see if there
was a consensus and even a necessary debate. If we were all in favor of it, we wouldn't
necessarily need to have a lot of discussion. But I will take additional comments as it relates to
the Walker amendment.
[LAUGHING]
I'm gonna keep saying it.

[LAUGHING]
I see some speakers in the group. I think they were there previous to that. So I'm going to-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I have a comment about the Walker amendment.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh. Yes, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: A question. Again, I'd like a definition of eligibility. So all these things
seem reasonable except for the fact that, then, you're eligible for a reimbursement.
KEN MIHALIK: Well I'll just take that to-- it's not necessarily-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That indicates to me that you might not be eligible, even when you give
the proper receipts. So.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm going to defer back to Chair Tisdale, as it was his modification.
DOUG TISDALE: I would say that the intention of the changes are, that if the expense is listed,
and if the procedures are followed, and the procedures currently do not include a requirement for
a receipt for any expense that is under $10, being itemized with date, time, place, purpose, and
relative to gratuities, currently, it is not required that there be gratuities for housekeeping.
It is expected that there would be documentation-- that is, receipts-- for transportation and
restaurant, but not for housekeeping. The proposed amendment, which I would speak in
opposition to, requires receipts for absolutely everything, and I think that's a bookkeeping burden
and is not appropriate.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: If I may suggest that we change the word eligible to shall be reimbursed.
KEN MIHALIK: We can address that after we finish up with the Walker amendment.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Buzek, I understand you have a question or comment.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Just so I understand procedurally where we are, there was a motion and a
second on the main issue of revising the Board and Expense Policy. Now we have a substitute
motion to approve the Revised Board Expense Policy, with the addition of the Walker
amendment? So when we vote, we take care of the substitute motion first, I believe, don't we?
And then if we vote on this, are we voting on everything, right? We're just voting on the revised?
Just adding the revision?

KEN MIHALIK: Correct.
VINCE BUZEK: And not the whole? Got it. Thanks. That's what I needed for clarification.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalk. I too have some concerns with item two in the
proposed amendment. When I travel, which I do for my business and other purposes. I typically
provide cash gratuities for housekeeping. And like, if you check your bags at the bellhop, you
provide cash, or even-- so those would be hard to obtain receipts for, in my view.
And if the amendment stands as written, then I would have to oppose it, just because I think it
would be burdensome.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. I'll also piggyback on that with the fact that it's now-- we're
now inconsistent with the rest of the organization's policy, and then also-- it's really that second
bullet, I think, that's going to be a burden, not only on the people submitting the receipts, but also
on the staff to try to reconcile all that.
Anybody else care to speak to the Walker amendment?
[LAUGHING]
Walker, yes? Director Walker.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, I think we have a queue. And I assume that people-- because
you can always pull yourself out of the queue by clicking never mind, so I'm assuming they're in
the queue relative to speak on the motion to amend as presented by Director Walker.
KEN MIHALIK: That is a good point. If you were waiting in the queue previous to that, I would
ask that you remove yourselves, and then get back in the queue afterwards, just to keep better
track of that. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So the point of this is to make sure that we do have the appropriate
documentation when we do write checks for expenses incurred. Over the years, I've signed lots
of expense reports and reviewed them. I would have discussions occasionally-- not often, but
occasionally-- with folks who didn't have receipts for any type of expense. And they said, well,
just give me the $10, without any kind of documentation. It's like, if you hire somebody to do
some work around your house, I need to go to the store and get some parts. Well, let me see the
receipts. I don't have them. Just trust me. $10. We're good.
So it opens the door, it provides the opportunity-- not that it's been taken advantage of, not that
there have been any egregious actions on anybody. But it just presents the opportunity and opens
the door for scrutiny of all of our expenses when we don't have receipts for items, no matter how
small.

I'll leave a cash tip, and I don't expense my tips to the staff or housekeepers. I just don't. But I
think that if we do charge the District, I and everybody else in the District who buys stuff in the
District and pays for it, I think we need to have proof that that expense was, in fact, incurred by
the expensee, expensor-- by the person getting the check.
[GIGGLING]
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: That's it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Thank you. Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I speak in opposition to the amendment relative to the
question of the $10 that is restricted to the question of meals. It's expenses for meals. And in
today's world, if you are traveling, it is hard to imagine that you could actually eat for less than
$10, and I am certainly willing to assume that Directors are generally honest and will accept a
$10 reimbursement for a meal that might have been $12, $15, or $20. So I have no particular
heartburn-- pardon the expression-- over the meal portion.
Relative to the gratuities, I just come back to the brief comment I made before, that the notion of
asking the maid in your hotel to please sign a receipt for your gratuity that you leave on your bed
as a thank you for cleaning up the room is something that is just not, I think, appropriate.
We do have, I think, appropriate safeguards against people abusing that. And as I said also, I
think it does create a certain burden to staff, to have to address and handle all of this, and it
creates a different standard, which may be appropriate-- different standard for the Board than we
have for our staff and our Senior Leadership Team. And I would respectfully suggest that we've
really exhausted this. So I would call the question.
KATE WILLIAMS: I've been waiting a really long time. I was the first person up there.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Why don't you have the last word?
KATE WILLIAMS: Last word. Waited a lot of years for this. I'm going to suggest that people tip
differently, that you can put your housekeeping tip on your bill, in which case you will get a
receipt for it. It is perfectly possible to do that most of the time. That I am not permitted to
submit tips where I work when I submit expenses. That's my choice if I tip or not tip. It's not the
responsibility of the organization.
That Dave might tip $2, and I might tip $10, and I don't think that that's the problem of RTD. I
am fine with not being reimbursed for anything that I don't have a receipt for. I think that as a

elected public officials, where everything we do is open, that that is a reasonable thing to ask.
And that if we don't have a receipt-- I have had to go back to a restaurant three weeks later, and
call them up, and ask them to go in their accounting-- I know how to do it-- and find me my
receipt, because I have misplaced it.
And that receipt did not usually come with the amount that I tipped on it. It was the receipt for
the food. So I just want to say that I am in favor of the Walker amendment and, generically, that
I'm in favor of most of these changes, because they're just making it all simple. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Let's vote on the Walker amendment. Williams, you were the
second-ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Mihalik? Just to be crystal clear, we're voting yes or no. If you're
voting yes, you're voting to approve the Walker amendment. If you're voting no, you're voting
against it. And then we'll go back to the main motion.
KEN MIHALIK: Correct. Director Williams, you were the second. Sorry. Director Walker was
the mover.
[LAUGHING]
We will note that that Director Walker was the mover. Director Williams was the second. So of
the 13 present, it does not carry. There were four yeses and nine no's. So we are back to the main
motion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: May I make an amendment?
KEN MIHALIK: One second Director Folska. Director Lubow in the queue ahead of you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Could I ask for a sample of the types of changes that
would be made automatically without coming back to the Board?
KEN MIHALIK: You got it. Yes, Mr. Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, Mr. Chairman. Yes, obviously, things like, for example, if Directors
is spelled without an apostrophe, and it's intended to be a possessive, we would authorize staff to
use that. It would be ministerial, clerical, administrative changes. It expressly says nonsubstantive, and I have every reason to believe that our Board Office will be most judicious in
doing that.
In any event, my anticipation would be that they would bring such matters to the attention of the
Executive Committee.
JUDY LUBOW: OK Thank you. I just wanted to make sure that it was just basically cleaning
up.

DOUG TISDALE: Cleaning up. Well said.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. So I'd like to make an amendment to change
the word eligible to shall be reimbursed.
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Where is that?
[LAUGHING]
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Mr. Chairman. If I can ask a question of Director Folska?
KEN MIHALIK: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: There are at least a couple of places-- I take it what you're asking is for a
consistent amendment throughout, that instead of, for example, Section 4.3 reading, "Directors
are eligible for reimbursement," to read, "Directors shall be reimbursed for."
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's correct. It would be a global change.
DOUG TISDALE: I understand the amendment. I will speak in opposition, but I understand the
amendment.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I mean eligible, given that they fulfill all the necessary
requirements that are listed with the receipts, and that timeline, et cetera.
KEN MIHALIK: Is there any other question to the-- oh, I see Director Broom. Before I speak,
I'll let you guys-- Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Well, I was going to start the main motion, but I do have one question about this.
It seems like if somebody wants to participate in an activity, and then feels like they don't want
to submit for reimbursement, that should be OK, and it shouldn't be, well, you've got to take a
reimbursement, because you went to this particular meeting. So I'd have it-- you know,
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, no. You submit it, and then you shall be reimbursed. Not submit it,
and then you're eligible. It leaves a question. Don't submit it, and you don't get reimbursed.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: I'll withdraw my request to speak right now, because I'm not speaking to the
motion.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, please. Yes. And the same if you're in the queue, and it's not to this latest
amendment, we'll just address that for now. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There. I guess I have a little concern with and agree with Director Folska
that it seems like a ministerial change shouldn't change the meaning. And I'm not clear why we
changed "the District will reimburse" to just "to Directors are eligible." It does seem to create a
different judgmentability.
KEN MIHALIK: Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't believe that that was the
intention. It was intended to provide for a simplicity of language, that you're either eligible or
you're not. And I can understand that one might say, well, an expense is eligible or not, as
opposed to a Director.
But unless, and certainly that's the pleasure of the Board, unless you want to-- well, I shouldn't
say that. The amendment as proposed would ask for consistent changes throughout the
document, editorially consistent, to read that Directors shall be reimbursed for, as opposed to are
eligible for reimbursement for. And I take it that's the intent.
I think my own thought is, the language that we have is perfectly suitable and covers-- and I
don't think we've had anyone have significant issues with this in the past. But I could be wrong,
and I don't want to prejudge. But that's my view. I would ask, if staff has any comment that they
would like to make relative to this, if I may yield to staff in that regard.
JOHN MCKAY: This is John McKay from the Board Office, and I'd hate to speak for Barbara in
her absence here. But I imagine that the change here was changed from-- excuse me. The District
will reimburse Directors for reasonable expenses incurred, implying that the Directors have to go
through the exercise of actually submitting the receipt in order to get reimbursed for that. It's not
an automatic thing. You have to go through the process of asking for the reimbursement first.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. McKay.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: [INAUDIBLE] will be reimbursed. That's not what it means.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. This is on the amendment that Chair Tisdale has captured so well. It's
Director Folska's amendment, but Chair Tisdale captured it, I think, in the right spirit. And we
will vote on that. Director Folska, of course, you were the mover. Director Lubow, you were the
second.
Yes. So of the 13 present, the motion does not carry. Five yeses and eight nos. And so we are
back to the main motion. I was going to say, if you had been in the queue previously, and had a
comment about the main motion-- I don't see anybody.

Oh, yes. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: So we're back on the main motion, correct? OK. I'm not making a motion to
amend or anything like that. But I did want to run something a little unusual by you all. And not
seeking action today. But here's the situation. It just came up. It's kind of time-sensitive.
The city of Arvada has a Federal grant to widen Ralston Road in Arvada. It's $2.1 million grant.
They are in the midst of final design for that project. And there are two bus stops along this area
that are highly utilized. I've taken scads of pictures with people waiting in various uncomfortable
places. And unfortunately, the $2.1 million doesn't provide for any upgrade to those two bus
stops.
After kind of searching around for whether there were a little plots of money here or are, or a
way to take advantage of work that's already being done, it will be inexpensive to improve rider
accommodation in this spot. There is the prospect for a minimal amenity. It's a leaning post. I'm
going to send you an image of it. And I've worked out with the city and the city's landscape
architect in charge of this piece, where she would be willing to take and place it into the contract,
and have these things installed. There would be no maintenance associated with them.
They're minimal in terms of cost. It's about $1,000 each, if you take into account a little dab for
installation. It would benefit riders in an area that has been kind of stressed, because of the train
horn noise for a year now and, sometimes, up to 80 times a day for people who live within a
couple hundred feet or 100 feet of the crossings or the railroad, right where they're hearing the
horns.
So anyway, I thought, well, one place I could perhaps propose is to have the money taken out of
my personal account, my travel account. And I would still keep my expenses within the budgeted
amount, so it wouldn't affect our bottom line, as it were.
So what I thought I'd do, and it was at the suggestion of a couple of people, is send out a little
write up about it that I had circulated to Chair Tisdale, and ask you to send through to him any
objections or thoughts you have. And then I can, in the meantime, get with the staff and see if, in
order to allow under this policy, we need a small change in wording that creates a very rare carve
out, a narrowly worded carve out that, at the discretion of the Chair, with the approval of the
Chair-- this sort of thing is allowed when you can demonstrate a clear benefit for customers, or
for transit.
And it's not going to endanger other objectives. I don't know how we do it. Maybe it's limited in
terms of amount. So I just wanted to give you a heads up about that. And then, promise if we are
moving forward with that, to get with the staff and circulate something in the way of wording
ahead of the board meeting.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I think I'm in favor of this. And I do believe that our Board
Expense Policy language already provides for the Chair's discretion for a lot of different things,

including something like this. I think there's a term-- I can't recall what it is-- a non-typical
expense. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Now, we're going to vote on the main motion. Director
Williams, you were the mover. Director Buzek, you were the second.
Remember, like all things, these are just written in digital stone. And so, they can be changed
from time to time as needed, with the 13 present, 12 yeses, and one no, being Director Folska.
And this does pass. Thank you. We'll move onto the second of three recommended actions
tonight.
It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee that the
Board of Directors approve resolution number blank, series of 2019, regarding reimbursement
for expenses incurred in order to attend RTD sponsored, transit-related group events, as
presented to the Finance Administration & Audit Committee. This recommendation is consistent
with the General Manager's 2019 core goal number two, strong and ethical leadership. Is there a
motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second. Thank you, Directors Buzek and Williams. And Mr. Chairman
again, I'll yield to you to elaborate any further if needed.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I think it's very self-explanatory. It is simply to address what was
not articulated clearly. And that is, the opportunity to reimburse a Director for a spouse or a
significant other attending an event, where it is number one, local, and number two, transit
related. And if it is local, and it's transit related, it's one of our approved events, then, yes.
Spousal or significant other reimbursement is allowed. We didn't have that clear before, and the
idea was to clear it up.
KEN MIHALIK: Any questions or comments on this? Let's move to a vote. Yes, Director
Buzek, we'll have the [INAUDIBLE] note that Director Buzek was the mover. Director Williams
was second.
TROY WHITMORE: [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: Whenever it comes up, whoever clicks first, gets logged in as the mover, just
so you know.
TROY WHITMORE: We didn't get trained on that.
KEN MIHALIK: And this passes unanimously. 13 yeses.
And the next recommended action, it is recommended by the Executive Committee and General
Counsel that the Board of Directors approve the attached resolution, and the associated revised
Board Bylaws as presented to the Finance Administration & Audit Committee, and that the

Board Office shall be permitted to incorporate additional non-substantive ministerial, or
grammatical changes, or conforming amendments as necessary without the need for further
Board approval following the Board's adoption of the recommended action. This
recommendation is consistent with the General Manager's 2019 core goal number two, strong
and ethical leadership. Is there a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Broom and Whitmore. Is there any discussion on this?
Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I have two comments, two amendments, and they were emailed to folks
today. But John is now kindly delivering them in writing for those of us who don't remember.
And I want to state them both separately so that they don't get confused with each other, et
cetera.
The first is page-KEN MIHALIK: One second. You mean, you're going to separate your amendments?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, two separate ones.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, let's do those one at a time.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: Just to clarify.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. So one of them has to do with Article 7, Section 5, that talks about the
Chair. But it's a very inclusive section that not only talks about the Chair, but the manager, the
Executive Director of the Board Office, and her performance evaluations, his or her.
And basically, it says that the responsibility for it will be given to an AGM, or somebody higher.
And I was thinking that must be God. But nonetheless, I spoke to Barbara McManus, and she
said, you know, it's always been the Chair. So I think that's appropriate, that we just say that it's
the Chair, but also that it be done after soliciting input from interested Directors, if Directors
want to give their input.
So I would make a motion to amend Article 7, Section 5. And the last sentence in the
subparagraph would be deleted and substituted with the following language. For purposes of the
Executive Manager's annual performance evaluation, the Chair shall be responsible for this
evaluation after soliciting input from all interested Directors.
TROY WHITMORE: Second

KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Rolf?
ROLF ASPHAUG: With all due respect, I don't believe that an amendment like this is germane
to the main motion that's in front of the Board. There's no current provision to change anything
in Article 7, section 5. So this motion, this motion to amend is being made, and it's not germane
to any of the current proposed amendments. It's a brand new subject, a brand new matter, and it
hasn't been brought with appropriate timing.
That being said, it could certainly be brought at any other Board Meeting at any time. But I feel
the need to advise the Board of that. Second, if I could comment that the way this is done right
now is that the Chair does do the evaluation, but it is done with an Assistant General Manager,
me, assisting to make sure that the evaluation is done in a manner that is consistent with
evaluations done for all other employees of the organization.
If you don't do that, you have the risk of an evaluation of this one employee who is not under
contract, like the General Manager, but is a general employee, being done in an arbitrary or
inconsistent manner. And so we have that safeguard in there. So that's why we have this
language the way it is.
I will say that the way it's been done in practice, both with the previous Chair and this Chair, is
that the Chair actually solicits input, does the evaluation, but I'm there essentially to make sure
that it's done in a manner that's consistent with the way evaluations are done for other employees
of the District. And it provides a little bit of insulation if there is a charge of discrimination, or a
charge of improper treatment, or something, because it has been done and vetted by staff.
So I'm speaking both to the rationale behind the current rule, but my main point is just that this is
not a germane amendment. Normally, it would not be permitted in parliamentary procedure.
JUDY LUBOW: I'd like to comment.
KEN MIHALIK: Please.
JUDY LUBOW: I defer to your expertise on that. This particular amendment and the second one
are similar in that regard. They're both sections that were not addressed in the present revisions.
But I figured that since we're dealing with the Bylaws, we might as well do it at the same time.
So you're saying that that's actually not a proper process.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And I totally understand that that's a rational-- you know, since we're dealing
with Bylaws, why not do them all? But the problem is is that it's not a part of the Bylaws that
were subject to being amended right now. It's a totally new part of the Bylaws.
So there hasn't been that advanced notice that's required for Bylaw changes-- notice to the public,
notice to the Board. Time to think about it. It's just this extra hurdle that's required for Bylaws.
Because Robert's Rules itself recommends that-- actually, states that Bylaws should be passed
by-- should always include at least notice and a 2/3 vote.

So what we have right now is consistent with that. If you want to do that still, if you or any one
else on the Board wanted to do, there'd be nothing preventing this from being brought with 10
days notice to the subsequent committee.
JUDY LUBOW: So I could work with you to just do it in a more appropriate manner?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Oh, yes. Absolutely.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. That'll be fine.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Thank you. I rescind my comments then.
TROY WHITMORE: And I'll rescind my second. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm glad we have such good counsel, and that we can-- that he's keeping
us all straight.
JUDY LUBOW: Cool.
KEN MIHALIK: So those were the two amendments-JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: You said you had two comments. Were those-JUDY LUBOW: No, no.
KEN MIHALIK: -- related to that?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate Director Lubow's
accession to the, I think, very appropriate and proper advice of legal counsel as a parliamentarian
on this too. . It's not to say that things can't be addressed. Just as, for example, when Director
Menten brought up the thing about notice, that's in here, in these revisions. That's part of what
we did, because it was brought up earlier and discussed , and we said, let's put it in here.
So I think it's appropriate for us to proceed with the approval of the Bylaws as submitted, which I
submit are generally-- there could be a tweak here or two that someone might consider
substantive. But generally, intended to be ministerial and administrative in nature. And I would
hope that after Director Folska has an opportunity to speak, that we'd be in a position to move
forward and approve the amended bylaws.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Just for the record, regarding other Directors
input, the Executive Committee, and the general Board as a whole, in the seven years that I've
been on this Board, never once was I asked my opinion about anybody's performance in our
Executive Board Office.
And that office works for this Board. They don't work for RTD per se directly. They're here to
work for us. And so you know, I think it would be helpful moving forward that we do solicit
input on the performance of our staff, particularly the Executive Director of our Board Office, to
everybody, in some form or fashion, like the electronic fashion, or in a discussion. That's all.
Thank you, Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Guissinger .
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm fine with giving the staff authority to make these changes. But these
are our Bylaws, and I guess I would hope that they would be approved by the Chair, or the legal
counsel, or somebody, just to make sure they are ministerial changes.
KEN MIHALIK: Noted. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Just one more. Thank you. I was going to make this comment, and then I
decided not to because I was dealing with this stuff. But now, I just want to raise it. In the
Bylaws, the section about the planning meeting, which is I assume the retreat, it doesn't mention
that we have two retreats now. We basically-- we don't just have one retreat anymore. We have
two. And I think that that should be stated in the Bylaws, because that's the reality. So when I
speak with Rolf, we'll talk about that issue also. OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. [INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes?
DOUG TISDALE: Could I have a right of reply relative to Director Guissinger's observation.
KEN MIHALIK: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: Again, as I said, relative to the Expense Policy, it definitely is the policy and
purpose of this Chair to have the Executive Committee review anything that the Board Office
should submit relative to being a ministerial change. And I think that to the extent that's
necessary that would be embodied somewhere, it would go in the Board Operating Guidelines,
and we could talk about including a specific reference to that in the Board Operating Guidelines.
But just for the assurance of this Board, yes, absolutely. This Chair would bring it to the attention
of the Executive Committee for comment.

KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. We will move to vote on the report Revised Board Bylaws.
Thanks. And Dr. Lubow and Buzek were first and second.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
Oh, sorry. No, you're right. I looked at the previous one. Director Broom was the first. Director
Whitmore was second. My apologies for that.
TROY WHITMORE: Do we want to go back and redo it?
KEN MIHALIK: John will make the correction. And of the 14 that are now here, 13 yeses and 1
no, Director Folska being the no. This does pass. And Heather make her way back up here for
the balance of the updates, first one being the 2020 Budget update, Mid-term Financial Plan, and
the Long-range calendar.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you very much. This is Heather McKillop, Chief Financial
Officer. We're just going to give you a view of the long-range, mid-term, and 2020 budget cycle
like we do about this time every year. So you know it's coming for the next year. So with that,
I'm going to turn that over to Jannette Scarpino, so she can walk you through that real quick.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. The purpose of the board item and calendar is to help the
Board anticipate the timing of our four key financial plans, those being the 2019 Amended
Budget, the 2025-- I'm sorry. 2020 to 2025 Mid-term Financial Plan, the Long range Financial
Plan, and the 2020 Budget.
We will look to the Board for collaboration in developing those financial plans during the year.
So the dates to note-- and these are tentative. On April 11, we will provide a high level review of
the mid-term financial plan, the long-range financial plan, and the 2020 budget.
In May, you will see the first draft of the mid-term financial plan. In June, we will present the
2019 amended budget and look for adoption by the Board. In July, you will see the first draft of
the long-range financial plan. And then in September , we present the final mid-term financial
plan and long-range financial plan, a first draft of the 2020 budget. And later in September, same
month, we will ask for adoption of the mid-term and long-range plans. In November, our
customary adoption of the 2020 budget. So that kind of summarizes the Board item. Questions?
KEN MIHALIK: I see one. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: So based on this timeline of the yellow flow chart here-- I'm really stating
this, especially with the new Board Directors-- but there's a question. September 17, a
presentation. So that assumes that we have that really in our hands the Thursday before that,
Tuesday the 17th. And then, in the second box, which is just several days later, in between those
two items, you have on the first box-- I apologize-- staff presents 2020 requests for budget and
receives Board comments and suggestions prior to public posting. So that's a quite limited
timeline to comment.

JANNETTE SCARPINO: On September 17, we will be presenting the final mid-term and longrange plan for recommendation to the Board for adoption. A week later, we will ask for adoption
of the mid-term and long-range plans. On September 17, we present the first draft of the 2020
budget. We receive your comments. We post it for public review and comment. That has to be
done by October 13.
And then, in October, we are back in front of this committee with any necessary updates to that
first draft budget since we posted it. And then in November, we proceed with the final budget for
2020.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's fine. I'm just pointing out that-- I know that when we have had
the budgets in the prior years, you have some holes in the budget, shortfalls, and need to shift
funding around. So I would say as a Board Director, we don't always have the most clear picture
until it's finally presented, and that's really when maybe where formalizing our questions
completely enabled you to share them with you.
So I'll leave it at that, that everybody have it in mind-HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if I could clarify too, Chair. By the time you've seen the mid-term
and long-range plans, you've already seen them three or four times in the previous month. So,
again, when we present the 2020 Budget, we're just taking off that first year of the mid-term and
long-range plans, and that's what we're coming to you with additional time for comments. And
then over the next two months is when we make additional changes that might come up.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Which has been the schedule we've used for the last four years I've
been here. I don't know about before that. So I was just going to say, the only problem about
presenting the 2020 Requested Budget in August is we don't have the midterm solidified with
you guys yet. And so we don't have that first year ironed out. And so we would be showing you a
very, very early version of it, which just might create more confusion.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And that's when we have those gaps. You know, when we're trying
to shift the money, and we've got to close a gap of this amount. So just pointing it out. Especially
I know with new Board Directors, they're sometimes, just drinking from the fire hose, and know
that I am highlighting that, that staff is open to the comments. Because sometimes, honestly,
what it looks like is, here's a finished product.
And really, the Board does have input on these budget items. That is one of our main tasks.
That's it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Menten. Yeah. In my limited experience, there's
something about this calendar being in yellow that makes it move really, really fast.
[LAUGHING]

It does.
Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Heather, at one of your orientations, you mentioned the
budget workshops. And I wanted to know, how does the budget workshops interface with this
Timeline
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we always try to do those budget workshops before that item is
presented on the next one. So, for instance, today we had one on asset managing and just the
overall asset management and the overall budget process. And then that leads up to you seeing
the first version of the mid-term financial plan in the next couple months.
Our next one's April, and we'll be talking about revenues. So we always tried to plan those
workshops before the item comes up in front of the Board for an action. Doesn't quite always
work that way if we have to move something, but that's how we tried to schedule them at the
beginning of the year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I think we're onto the next update. Doug is on his way
up to give you an update on the January. I know there's some holes in this particular one. So he's
going to talk about that, and where we're at.
Oh, yeah.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. And thank you, Heather. This is Doug MacLeod. So these
are the January financial results. The fiscal policy that the Board adopts requires us to report
monthly the financial results to the Board. The difficult thing with our January results is that
we're still moving numbers around from the year end to start with the baseline for January 1 to
roll forward.
So some of these numbers are actually in draft form, especially in the balance sheet and the
income statement. So we do our best to put an estimate where we don't have things solidified at
that point. Regarding the three key performance indicators we have on the monthly financial
statement dashboard, sales and use taxes, we did not get those until Friday of last week after the
package was already published. So we initially put an estimate in here of the budgeted amount.
So the budgeted amount was $48 million 069, and the actuals that came through are $47 million
010, so about a million short of budget for the first month. Yeah, I would point out that that $48
million budgeted number, what happens is when CU Leeds gives us the forecast for the fiscal
year, they break it down into quarters.
So for the entire year, the increase over 2018 was forecasted at 5.6%. But the way they broke
down the quarterly 5.6 is we kind of got front-loaded in quarter one with a 6.6% increase. And in
quarter two, it drops down in the 4%, then back up, so it kind of fluctuates. So even though at
$47 million, we were 2.2% under budget, we were really 1% under budget, and about a million
dollars. Still a little softer than what we expected.

You might remember in 2018, we finished the year up 5.7% over 2017. So the idea was for 2019
under of the forecast, that that got forward by that same increased rate of 5.6%. But as I said, the
budget for the first quarter is a little high.
Nonetheless, we did come in below what we would have come in, even if it was 5.6%. We came
in at 4.6%. There was nothing in particular that really stood out from that first months of results
for January, so we'll continue to monitor that, and so will CU Leeds and adjust our forecast with
the amended budget if necessary.
Moving onto the second dashboard item, ridership. So this is where we have converted from our
old methodology of measuring ridership over to automatic passenger counting across all modes.
We are still developing those reports. We had a couple of issues with the software. That's called
Ride Check Plus, and getting that to work on our machines to pull these reports out.
There were some data cleansing issues, so we still don't have the January ridership numbers. We
should have those shortly, as well as February, so we'll be sure to let the Board know, and we
can update this report and republish it once we have those final numbers.
Lagging ridership at this point makes it a little bit difficult to evaluate the fare revenue, what the
variance is there. But good news is we're 4.7% higher than last January. You will recall that we
did implement the fare increase on January 1. I believe that was expected to be about high single
digits, 8% to 10%.
We came in at 4.7%. Some of that difference between the 8% to 10%, and this 4.7% increase is
that we had budgeted to have the G line open. When we prepared the budget, we didn't know at
the time what the timing of that G line opening was going to be.
So a portion of that shortfall of $217,000 is due to the G line. Some of it's probably a mix of
ridership, as well as some fare estimations that we did with this new fare increase. And that's all I
have to present. We'd be happy to take any questions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I just want to add, we'll make sure that this gets updated, so when
we post these reports online, that they have the most updated information.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, Chair. I'll ask the question now. If you feel it's inappropriate,
then you can have me move it to Other Matters, which would be old business. But I'm going to
ask about the service, the family performance report, which is, for everybody's info, the report
that breaks down all the routes, what was the boardings, what was the revenue, what's the
subsidy on that route. One of the greatest reports that we got, for me.
We have gotten it over all the years that I've been here anywhere from late in the following year
to, one year we got it maybe July, August. And I know there's two parts to it. So we have a
Service Development Team, works on the ridership stats. The Finance Department is working on
the fare revenue piece of it, because those are really the two components.

What I'd like to know is, because so many of our decisions are based upon service changes,
where that's the core of the information, what's the subsidy for that boarding? What are the
boardings? Is this falling behind what needs to be done? How can we get that sooner each year?
And I know one response is we're waiting for audited numbers, which would be March, April
time. But how do we get this a lot earlier than several months after the end of one year?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. So you're correct. The Finance Department does
put together, actually, all of the financial numbers for that model. So that service performance
report is broken down by route. So we need to get the ridership by route. And then we also need
to have the audited final numbers for both expenses and revenue.
So the Service Planning folks last month brought the 2017, which was very late, the 2017 service
performance that shows the subsidy and cost per boarding by route this year. And there were
many factors due that caused that, including some new lines opening. But typically, we produce
that report by May, because that's when we have the audit and financial statements, and bring
that to the board. The service development folks bring that to the Board in May.
And we anticipate we should have that no problem in May. So we're on schedule to get that for
2018. One of the difficulties we had in the past is we have a cost model that allocates out the
operating expenses to each route by mode, so bus, light rail, commuter rail, and then by route.
We were very comfortable in the past with how that was working, that cost model. The cost
model was not set up to deal with commuter rail at the time, so we've had to make some
modifications, since that was a new mode.
On the revenue side, we weren't very confident with the results that we were getting to allocate
for our revenue, because we have riders that will ride on several modes throughout the day, and
somehow passes, somehow flash passes, where we don't necessarily know what kind of payment
method they're using to ride on that particular vehicle. We catch them getting on a light rail
vehicle. But if they have a monthly pass, for instance, they don't have to tap it, so we don't know
how they paid.
So we weren't very confident previously in how we were allocating that revenue by mode. And
naturally, the subsidy comes by taking the allocated cost per route, and then subtracting out the
fare revenue we get. What's left over is what has to be subsidized. So if one portion of that is
incorrect, we weren't feeling very confident with the subsidy. We feel much better about that, the
way we're allocating it now. And now that we have this new ridership reporting, we feel that the
numbers will be much better.
One of the things we might be concerned with is if there's a swing. We know that our ridership
reporting under this new methodology will increase on bus about 8%. Previously, on the buses,
we had operators actually keying the riders in manually. And now, that we're using APC as an
automatic counter for each passenger that departs and gets off the bus, we have more confidence
in those numbers. So we'll see that go up, but we will have comparative statistics for the prior
year so we can see any changes there.

So the long answer to your question is we will have those 2018 ridership performance metrics in
May.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And do we have 100% of our light rail with APCs on them
now?
DOUG TISDALE: No. Currently, it's about 27%.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, we're still that low.
DOUG MACLEOD: That's the one mode. So commuter rail is 100%. Bus is a little over 70%.
As we're replacing the bus fleet, which we're currently about halfway through, I believe, it will
be 100% APC covered on buses. Light rail is 30%. But the Board, about a year ago, approved an
initiative to add additional APBs to the light rail vehicles. The tough part there is that those light
rail vehicles have to be brought in and taken out of service for a period of time. There's a whole
bunch of wiring that goes through, and there's eight different doors on each car that APCs have
to be installed on.
So at the time that we get all those APCs installed, plus the new light rail vehicles that are
coming in, we'll be APC equipped. We'll go from about 30% up to about 60% APC equipped.
And the way we measure ridership is in Ride Check Plus, it extrapolates for each trip. We have
to get an APC on each trip during the month, and it will take that and extrapolate it through the
whole month for the vehicles that do not have APCs.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. I'll look forward to the report in May.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. I don't see anybody else. So we'll move onto the Fare
Implementation update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So. Thank you. Pauletta and Michael Washington are coming up here
to cover part of it. But I'm going to start and tell you where we are and what's been completed.
Right now, our focus is on implementation of the low income program, which we'll find out
shortly, we have a new name we're going to announce tonight. So I will no longer be calling it
that in the future.
But I wanted to give you an idea of where we are we. We have made significant progress, at least
from our point of view in the last month. We've been working with the Office of Information
Technology at the State. We were able to get the business requirement document finalized,
which means that we were able to start getting a final number that we needed. We're in the
process of getting that finalized, and also executing the intergovernmental agreement, which is
key, because that outlines the roles and responsibilities.
Hopefully, their bosses aren't hearing. But they have been working without that IT to help us
meet our deadlines. So we are very anxious to get that in place for them so that they're not
working at risk.

As we mentioned previously, we are not paying the Office of Information Technology for their
time, and they have spent considerable time. Nor are we paying for like, health care policy and
finance staff and other stuff that has been at every meeting. We do have to pay, however, for
their consultants time, because they have to pay that as a direct cost, and we will be paying for
storage costs, as well as processing costs based on number of transactions that we do in the
future.
So as soon as we have those numbers finalized, which we should have by next month, I'll be able
to bring those costs as we're working on additional costs for the ongoing program compliance
also. So we're starting to see things actually get accomplished, which is fun.
So with that, I'm going to turn it over to the marketing and outreach team that Michael headed.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Hi. This is Michael Washington, Transit Equity Manager here. So
as Heather has mentioned to you all at numerous Board meetings, we created a marketing and
outreach advisory group to help-- that was essentially comprised of various stakeholders and
individuals that are in the business of providing social service, or providing, administering, and
marketing those social service programs throughout the region. because we really wanted to seek
their assistance and their expertise in coming up with a strategy and a method to alleviate the
potential for stigma associated with the administration of our low income program by starting
with the branding of the program, that being the name of the program in particular.
And so after three meetings that were about three or four hours long-- they were a little grilling
to some, but it actually went by very fast, where we covered topics like deficit language,
meaning what are the types of words that you can use in referring to a program like this that
would essentially make people feel marginalized, and thus dissuaded from opting into the
program.
And so we came up, eventually, through the feedback that we received from the group, and after
going through a couple of exercises talking about things like implicit bias and other things that
really contribute to us coming up with language that's essentially not welcoming to individuals
that would like to opt into a program like this, we came up with a couple of names internally, and
then sought their feedback on those names. And finally, came up with a name called the LiVE
Program.
And so, we actually have an image here of what the My Ride cards will look like. And it's
actually using the new design that marketing intends to roll out for all of our My Ride cards,
including youth and the regular and the special discount card that is used for individuals that are
elderly or with disabilities.
And so the new name of the program is the LiVE Program. Can you guys see it well? No, can't
see it well? a
KATE WILLIAMS: People are going to say Live. I hope you all are aware of that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is the name of program for the low income program.

MICHAEL WASHINGTON: For the low income program. And it is not an acronym. It is not an
acronym. And so the whole intent here was to move forward with something that actually
captured the spirit of the program, which is that this is a opportunity for individuals to live their
lives in the best way that they can. And that was the real thought here, after looking at a ton of
different names and trying to come up with something rather quickly so that we could still launch
the program in time.
The group responded very positively to this notion, and said that this was really a name that we
could really message the program and the intent of the program very well. And so that's where it
came.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And I think I would just add, this group has really, I think, helped a lot
of us to open up our thinking about how we really want to refer to a program like this that is
really about people living their lives, and the ability that public transit gives people to live their
lives and have opportunity, and connect them with the places that they want and need to go. And
these being the folks in our community who are the most transit dependent.
And so, again, as Michael said, as we listen to the feedback from this group and heard the themes
and the sensitivities, and took that back, then, to our team and considered various names, there
were a few that we then brought back to the group last week.
And this is the name that they felt was probably the best and the most conducive to reflect what
we're really trying to do with this program. And it doesn't stand for anything. We were very
sensitive to the fact that we did not want it to really stand for anything, except for what it really
is, which is Live.
And we came up with, I think, a little diversion of how you would typically spell or see the word
Live, so it's an uppercase L with a smaller case i and uppercase V and E. And so it will be called
the LiVE Program. And the card itself will be the LiVE Discount Card. And then there's also a
LiVE Eligibility Card that goes along with this, because they'll have to, of course, have that
eligibility card.
But we feel very pleased about how this came out. And this is really, I think, a very great
example of how we used people who are experts in their field to engage with us and come to
terms with something that we all feel really good about. And I would say that we would like to
utilize this group for other things beyond this marketing and outreach for this particular pass
program, and so we've already started talking internally about how we can keep this group
together from time to time and utilize them for other engagement opportunities.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you both. I don't see any questions or comments. Again, yeah,
thank you both for that. We are onto other matters tonight.
I don't see anybody.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do have one quick thing.

KEN MIHALIK: Sure. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I talked to Sherry Ellebracht today. She left the red folders for
everybody, because she said she wanted people who aren't going to APTA to know what we're
doing there. She said, if you have any questions, give her a call.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. We will meet again as a group on April 9. And we'll call this
adjourned.

