February 11, 2020
Operations & Customer Service Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I do want to see your show in a couple months.
KATE WILLIAMS: I wish you would come. Maybe they all went home. OK. So we're going to
call this meeting to order, because we have a lot of people here that would also like to go home
sometime tonight. We have a couple of recommended actions this evening. I'm going to follow
Director Cook's lead and assume that most everybody here did their homework and we'll be able
to move along.
I'm going to read the first recommended action and we'll take people as they come. It's
recommended by the Operations and Customer-- oh, yeah, we are-- sorry. As part of the call to
order, we are the Operations and Customer Service Committee. I forgot to mention that. And I'll
let you guys say who you are over there in just a minute. It's recommended by the Operations and
Customer Service Committee, that's us, that the Board of Directors, that's everybody here,
authorize the General Manager or his designee, that would be Ms. McKillop at the moment, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an agreement with the city of Longmont, to buy up
fares on all four of the Longmont local fixed route services, herein referenced as the 300 series.
Specifically, the 300 series are routes 323, 324, 326, and 327, and complementary Access-a-Ride
services for a period of two years.
I believe that this recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals, of core
goal number one, successful delivery of transit services and core goal number three, asset
management. We'll say that. Sounds good. OK.
JUDY LUBOW: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That would be Director Lubow and Director Broom, and
gentlemen, we will open the floor up for questions or comments. Let's try comments first. You
have anything you want to tell us outside of this?
FRED WORTHEN: Just very briefly, Ma'am. Fred Worthen, AGM of bus operations. I wanted to
introduce very quickly my newest member of my staff, who's been with me for some time but is
in a new role. Greg Smith is my new Deputy AGM, and he is joining us this evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hey, Greg. Hi, yay. Welcome aboard.
[APPLAUSE]

GREG SMITH: Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ladies and gentlemen of the board, I don't see anybody in the queue if there
are any questions, speak now or forever hold your peace. OK. Seeing nothing further, I think we
will go directly to a vote on this. I have the mover as Director Lubow and the second as Director
Broom. If you all would vote.
OK, at this point, we have 13 of the Directors here. We are missing Director Menten and Director
Folska, but 13 votes have been cast for yes and this motion passes. Thank you, gentlemen. Moving
right along. Hi, Mr. Ford. I think we're good.
OK, we're going on to the next one. Recommended action number two was removed from this, if
you have any questions about that. We're going on to the contract option award for the purchase
of 34 40-foot low floor transit buses. Say that fast. It's recommended by the Operations and
Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General
Manager or his designee to exercise the contract option and amend the contract 19FK002 with
GILLIG LLC for the purchase of 34 additional new 40-foot transit buses and associated spare
components and extended warranties, for a total price not to exceed $16,650,480.00.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's Goals. Core goal number one,
successful delivery of transit services. And task goal number three, asset management and state of
good repair. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, let's see. I have Director Whitmore and Director Buzek. And I see people
waiting to speak. So if you gentlemen want to just go straight to questions, we can do that. Director
Mihalik, I believe you're up.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I tried to find some information on the warranty on
their website. I couldn't find anything. Would you be able to elaborate on the cost plus value of
that extended warranty? Do we exercise it ever, have we ever used it?
STEVE GIESKE: Yes, sir. This is Steve Gieske. I'm the General Superintendent of Maintenance
for Bus. The only warranty that we're suggesting we purchase is one where we get reimbursed for
any labor during years two through 12 for any LED lighting on the bus that we change, it only
costs $150 a bus, and we've found over the last several years that it is a significant money-saver
for us.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. That's it. Next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Have we looked at the new hydrogen and electric
buses? I assume these are diesel buses that were buying for our fleet now, but in the future, have
we looked at those?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM Bus Operations. We have looked at hydrogen.
Unfortunately there is not a hydrogen source in the state of Colorado that we could even purchase
from. The closest source is actually California.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. On a similar question, similar line of questioning. I would
personally think that given the climate change issues that we're all facing, you do indicate that
we're saving pollution amounts from the prior engine, which is terrific. But I would think that
anytime we don't buy renewables we should indicate why we don't, because I would think it
behooves us as responsible citizens to address that.
So I'm sure there are reasons why you didn't have hydrogen, which you said, or electric. But I
would like to know, I will ask each time that question, why didn't we buy the renewable, just
because it's so important.
FRED WORTHEN: OK. Fred Worthen, AGM Bus Operations in December we actually held an
electric vehicle workshop and we talked a great length about the challenges with the electrification.
In this particular instance, these buses are going to our contracted service operators. We do not
own those bases, so upgrading the electrical facilities alone is not feasible. But there is also another
very long list of reasons why electric buses are almost twice as expensive as diesel, plus you have
to incur, you're buying a complete system so you have to incur additional infrastructure costs such
as charging units. You have to upgrade the electrical at the facility. You have to connect to the
grid. So there are significant capital investments and we don't have money budgeted for that.
Above and beyond that, battery electric buses are still in their infancy. We have had quite a few
problems with our BYD fleet. We had two planetary failures that led to a fleet defect, and the
planetary failures are the electric motors, so BYD had to come in and completely rebuild those.
We have also just recently received information that even though these buses aren't, they're barely
two years old, they have already exceeded their warranty requirements on the battery. We've seen
a 20% degradation of them.
So there are still technological issues with them, but there's also various other issues. There's range
limitations. Our Mall fleet goes about 100, 110 miles between change charges. Our diesel buses
can go 600 miles. So about 25% of our services are even capable of operating with battery electric
right now. There are also limitations with the systems themselves. There's a great deal variability
during winter months. We lose a lot of range, so with the fluctuations and how far they can go,
even, vary significantly.

So there's a lot of challenges for large scale implementation. I do say, I would say, though, that we
are in the process of putting together a team. We were awarded from the VW settlement $8.8
million dollars for fleet electrification. We also received $2.6 million from an FTA Low-No grant.
So we have a team that is putting together and preparing for that purchase. But there is a significant
amount of work that has to be done to prepare for that.
We will be putting this team together and doing a lot of the planning and modeling work this year.
And we hope to have specs out for those buses, which could be up to 17 buses in infrastructure,
either late this year or early next year. So hopefully that answers your questions.
That's the very, very nutshell component. If you'd like, also, I'd be happy to go through more
detailed with you like I did with the workshop. We could set up some time one on one and I could
take you through even greater detail some of the lessons learned we had from the fleet.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And in addition, I was raising it because I think it's such an important
issue that it needs to be addressed, because this is what we do. We transport people. And part of
the environmental problems with global warming is from transportation. I'm sure you're aware of
that, too. But I listened to the problems and apparently they're still very extreme. Thank you very
much. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. I was, and thank you, Mr. Worthen. I was a little
concerned about the planetary failure, and wondered if we were all going to be in trouble. But I'm
glad to know that that was not what you meant by that. OK, I see Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. Mr. Worthen, can you remind me who our
contractors are that drive buses for us?
FRED WORTHEN: We have four different facilities. We have First Transit Longmont, First
Transit Denver, First Transit Commerce City, and Transdev, which operates in the southern
portion of the district.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We don't have others? That's it?
FRED WORTHEN: That's the fixed route site. We have others that operate paratransit and flexride services, but those are the fixed route operators.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And when we hire those, how many buses do we give them? We give them
buses and fuel, isn't that right?
FRED WORTHEN: They represent right about 48% to 50% of our fixed route operations.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And we give them the bus and the fuel for $1 a year?
FRED WORTHEN: I can't say that we give the, Greg, can you answer that?

GREG SMITH: This is Greg Smith, Deputy AGM, Bus Operations. We do not lease the buses to
the contractors. RTD owns the buses and we allow them to use the buses. We do reimburse them
for the diesel fuel that they use.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So it's a pass-through?
GREG SMITH: It is.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so we own the buses and we let them drive it.
GREG SMITH: That's correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to say that I was one of the few Directors that did participate in
the electrification workshop, and I found it to be very, very informative, and I would encourage
those of you who weren't able to attend to take AGM Worthen up on his offer to go through it,
because it's really a good presentation. But I would also say that it was presented without any bias,
and that even though at this point in time, the takeaway I got from it was even though at this point
in time it's cost-prohibitive, that the technology is moving so fast that there are opportunities in the
very near future to reexamine those policies.
So it was an, it was just very, very good in terms of, there was no bias one way or the other. Just
at this point in time, this is where we are, but that the industry is moving. So I just wanted to
respond to Director Lubow, that it's not over. It's just a point in time. It's getting late, so I'm not
very articulate.
But anyway, I wanted to thank them for their presentation on the electrification. That was
fascinating.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Miss McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to remind the Board and staff that we are recording those
sessions now, so any Director that wants to watch any of those and formulate their own questions
to get to Mr. Worthen, we have the ability to do that. We're doing that to try or maximize staff time
with the training of the Board and still get the Board their information.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. I was sorry to miss that, as I think many of us were. Do
you think, perhaps, as a follow-up to this, you could send us the link to that particular workshop?
Thank you for that. OK.
Oh, more people showed up. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also attended the electrification
workshop as well. And as a TMA director, it was pretty exciting, because RTD has the largest
electric bike system in the country, that's number one. And number two, the number of VMT
reduction that it represents for the region is pretty exciting and very impressive. And I just wanted
to share that as well. So if you can go, I think you'd really like it. I have the presentation
PowerPoint. I'd be happy to get a copy of it for you. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Just to piggyback on comments by Director Catlin in particular, to the extent
these are a 15 or more year, plus or minus, commitment to a particular technology, I think just
recognizing what she has acknowledged, that we're seeing a change rapidly occurring, that we
begin to think about that in terms of the size of our orders. Not making unnecessary orders if it
looks like there's a change that's imminent. I don't know what all that planning looks like. But just
making that consciously, or making a conscious effort to map out how we transition to these new
technologies, as we make these sizable purchase, I guess. That doesn't make sense.
[LAUGHTER]
FRED WORTHEN: May I respond?
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: I'll keep this very brief. That is a big part of the reason why we are putting
together a team and putting together a very clear map with our next purchase, to try, a lot of the
obstacles that we are dealing with right now, we're really trying to figure out how do we change
our business practices so that we can do this at a larger scale? How can we do things to make it
more cost-effective also so that these aren't cost-prohibitive. But we have made a commitment and
we will do this every year. Whenever we do a vehicle purchase, we will always go through the
process of looking at what the best technology is before we make a recommendation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. OK, seeing nobody else wanting to speak, I believe we
need to go to a vote. The mover was Director Whitmore and the second was Director Buzek. If
you gentlemen would vote?
[COUGHING]
Salud. It appears to me that we have 14 yes votes in favor of this purchase, and one no vote, the
one no vote being Director Folska. Thank you, gentlemen.
OK we're still in this Customer Service and Bus Ops group, so you guys can stay right there at the
table. Good evening, Mr. Ford. The next thing we're going to have is updates. The first one of
those is the service availability, January 2020. And we got all this information in our packet. If
there are questions, we can take them now. Gentlemen, if you have anything you'd like to add that
you didn't provide to us beforehand.

FRED WORTHEN: Just very briefly. Fred Worthen, AGM Bus Operations. One of the questions
that we've had is how are contractors being impacted by our shortage of manpower. So we have
actually modified the reporting. From this point forward you'll see not just the amount of
mandating that we're doing directly operated, but you also see what our contractors are doing also.
So combined, we are doing very close to the same amount of mandating, right around roughly
close to 40,000 hours a month in mandatory overtime.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that information. It was well presented, I thought.
Seeing no questions, we're going to move on to the second part of this, which is the update on lost
hours, January 2020. Looks like we have a changing of the guard at the table. Thank you,
gentlemen, for your participation.
I guess I'm out of order here I was supposed to do service reductions first. You guys still want to
do that first, or did I send the wrong people home?
DAVE JENSEN: They were quick to leave.
KATE WILLIAMS: I saw that. Everybody ran right out the door.
MICHAEL FORD: They were smart.
[LAUGHTER]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. OK, let's do proposed service reductions first.
MICHAEL FORD: I am Michael Ford, COO. I left brochures on each of your desks about the
upcoming service reductions between February 12 and 27. There will be 15 outreach events related
to the service changes, and then there's 18 service change meetings scheduled between February
19 and March 5. So the information's there. If there's a desire to have even more brochures, there
are plenty, but I just want to make sure everybody had a copy of them, knew the dates, and if there
is any questions or any pieces of information you needed more, we're happy to provide that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much, Mr. Ford. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. I might have jumped the gun. I wanted to talk about the retention problem
and speaking to speaking to employees about how to improve things. So I don't know if I came
before or whatever-KATE WILLIAMS: I want you to hold on to that. We'll come back. I've jumbled the meeting up
a little bit. Director Menten, are you on this topic with us?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes

KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So my question has to do with a couple of the routes that cross
three to four districts. So not just district M, in this case. And I'll start with 99L. So that generates
of way down south and goes all the way into the core downtown civic center. There has been a
large, large cry from the group who rides 99L that it's not fair. And there are some alternatives that
have been proposed. And again, this goes into multi-jurisdiction, so it goes in to Director Catlin's
area, and again it's crossing Kate, and we're getting all of them.
And Jesse has said, well, Jesse Carter, has said well, we'll talk about those during the outreach.
How do we get a grasp of what is being put together, if anything? Or is it just can completely rely
upon us to continue to say, well, you know, if the 99L goes away completely, let's add on CV,
probably the CV, maybe, stopping.
Where are you at in service planning to know, as we go to these meetings and we're, I mean, mine's
for Friday. Dr. Tisdale starts off tomorrow. You know, I'm thinking for myself I need to have some
sort of a visual for the people attending the meeting and for the media there that says, yeah, some
writers think it's going to add, you, know, they say it'll add another hour if we don't do something.
In reality it's another 20 minutes. Is that a lot of impact over many days? Yes it is.
So those are my questions. I've been just struggling with where we're going to go with us.
MICHAEL FORD: I appreciate the question. Unfortunately, Jesse not here tonight. I'm going to
have to dial back in with him to get more information on some of the things that will be presented.
But your question is, how will we be prepared for that, I can get with him tomorrow and probably
get an answer a little bit later on that day. I know he's been working on it with his staff. I just don't
have all the details right now. So let me have that opportunity and we'll get back to you tomorrow.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. I know that Mr. Carter has received all kinds
of information from all of us. We are in the habit of sharing that with him, so I'm sure he will have
some feedback. OK, I see nobody else in the queue under this topic. I just want to note for the
record that there are a number of these meetings on Tuesday, February 25.
So some of us Directors have had to choose between attending our public meetings and being here
at the Board Meeting. That's a really tough call. I think we have pretty well decided that we will
go to our public meetings, but I'd like to go on the record that when we all get dinged for the
meetings that we did not attend, that, I don't know about the rest of you guys, but I can only be in
one place at a time. So I can either be out with my constituents or I can be here representing my
constituents. So let's just have that on the record. The board will be small on Tuesday the 25th of
February.
Oh, Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I, too, am one of those people need to attend
that public meeting. It's actually within bike riding distance of my house, so I will be going to that.
And it's going to be discussing the 99L, so I think it's important that I attend that and not the Board
Meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that feedback. Anybody else? OK. Let's go on. Oh, I'm sorry.
Chair. I didn't see you. Where's your picture?
SPEAKER: I don't know. It was there a minute ago.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just want to also say for the record, I think that the Tuesday night
thing was inadvertently done because, Connie Payne, who's been doing this forever, has retired
and we have a new person in that office. And I think that's why there are some Tuesday night
meetings in there. And so I just want to say that, because I had asked that question too and they
were really apologetic. So I can understand how that could happen. But I'll be at the Board Meeting
for you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Or we could always move the board meeting to another night. Now that would
be new and different, right? That would be new and different. OK, let's go on, or we'll be moving
this Board Meeting till tomorrow.
Service availability January 2020 is our next topic.
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. But I believe Fred Worthen
spoke on that, and I'm rail operations update.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, then you're next. I'm down with that. I have that piece of paper right
here. OK, so Fred's good and gone. Smart man. Are we having fun? We're having fun here. This
is what happens when we have meetings this late at night I'm going home at 9:30. So the rail
operations update, if-[LAUGHTER]
--if we have any questions, you all good people did your homework. Mr. Jensen, do you have
anything that you want to add? Do you want to mention those numbers at the bottom so everybody
knows what they are?
DAVE JENSEN:
DAVE JENSEN: Again, this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. I didn't see your sheet. So
I can see on my sheet that the numbers come out, but it looks like they don't on your sheet. So at
the very bottom, the list is for preventable accidents. And for the month of December, we had zero,
and then year to date we had two, which is what those numbers are.

And then the only other thing that I would add is just a comment that our service availability
continues to struggle. It continues to drop slowly, so it was 94.22%, which is also affecting our
on-time performance, which is also not good. It's below 90%. And we're continuing to work on
that. And in that regard, we currently have 36 train operators, 36 students in training right now,
and then another 35 scheduled to begin this month, the 18th.
So we're continuing to hire. We're continuing to train. The variables are our attrition rate, our
graduation rates, what affects our service availability sometimes, how many people are sick, how
many people are off on injuries, how many people are off on vacation. Those are the variables that
will impact our service availability.
I will say to the good that this year, January and so far in February, only three operators have left.
Compared to our attrition rate last year of an average of eight. I also want to temper that excitement
with, it's very early in February, it's a small sample size, but we're taking every victory we can get.
Every little bit makes a difference.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. I see some people who would like to participate.
Director Lubow, thank you for your patience.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, about retention, Director Menten and I went to the south
Elati rail facility just to spend an hour there speaking to people about, at least the question that I
was most interested in, was what ideas they would have for better hiring and retention. And I really
got an earful.
But I found that they were very good ideas. And I would imagine, I know that you went and had
listening sessions. I don't know if you asked people just what do you think would be better ideas
for retention, but I really got quite a few. And I'm just wondering if we've been asking those
questions and then putting them into a plan those things that seem reasonable. Because I've got
some suggestions that I could talk with you.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. I've been in all the bases. I've got more to do. But
I've been taking notes. We've had a group of folks talking about, and listening, mostly, but just
hearing what they have to say, but also taking down notes, understanding their concerns. And
we've got action plans that we're drawing up as a result of that. So we've got comprehensive
responses that we're looking to get back out to people in the very near future. I've been to Elati,
I've been to East Metro, Platte, Boulder, District Shops, and we've got a few others. And I'll be
coming back to Elati again.
So we're very actively involved. We're getting a lot of good feedback. People are appreciative our
listening. Again, it's more about listening and taking that information and doing something with it.
So we have notes from all those meetings, and people are contributing to the information that's
been requested or the concerns that have been addressed, or brought up for us to address.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, I would like to see, when you get a chance to do it, a
compilation of those suggestions and notes. I mean, I'm at the point where I think asking the people

most involved and then being really open to suggestions makes a lot of sense. I mean, I'd like to
hand you this summary of the suggestions that I received just in that one hour.
MICHAEL FORD: Happy to take that on. But again, we do have a lot of comprehensive notes ,
and I'm happy to share that with the Board and what we're doing with the next steps that we're
taking to address issues.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both for that interesting discussion. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Quick question. You said that only three folks have
separated thus far. What did they say in their exit interviews as to why they were leaving the
agency?
MICHAEL FORD: I don't want to give the wrong numbers. One was a rules violation termination.
One employee, I don't know the answer to. I can certainly get back to you. And then the other one
left for another job doing similar work for less money because they could control their schedule
and work Monday through Friday and not be mandated.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. I would be interested, I know that the data that we've seen was, maybe,
from 2017 about the survey data, like exit surveys, about why folks were leaving. I would be
interested, maybe on a monthly or bi-monthly basis, if we could just know, when people are
separating from the agency, what folks are saying. It might yield some ideas or sense of something,
how we might be able to address the retention piece of this workforce issue.
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. OK, see nobody else up there, I'm going to take
my chance to say my two cents' worth. I'm going to say it again, I've said it every meeting since
the beginning of the year. I'm wondering if we have a union representative here in the room? No.
I think that's something that we need to work on. I think that they are part of the discussion that
we're having, and that they need to be here. So if anybody from the union is reading this, I'd like
for you to start coming to the meetings and being part of what's going on.
OK. There's my two cents' worth. All right, we have one more, oh, one Board member's waiting
to speak. I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. Did the red light celebration happen? Do you know what I'm
speaking about? They told us about that in the lobby.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, I do know what you're talking about.
NATALIE MENTEN: Did I miss it?

DAVE JENSEN: Yes, it did happen and yes, you missed it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, this sounds fun.
DAVE JENSEN: We can have it-KATE WILLIAMS: We all missed it. Wait.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I bring it up because I think we'll be in the safety discussion, that, you
know, that's coming up in our next discussion. And I just forgot about that. We've had a really
crunched schedule lately.
DAVE JENSEN: And as you say that, I apologize, because that sounds like something we should
be making available to the Board when we're doing those things. And so I'll be more mindful of
letting you know in advance so that you can be there for them.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you both. OK, we're moving on to the last update, which is the
SMS update. Mr. Meader, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Ford, Mr. Jensen, anybody else who's left,
thank you, too.
OK I think we're going to, do we want to go through the presentation? Do you all want to see the
presentation? Did everybody read it, look at it, have questions? Read it, looked at it? You're off
the hook, unless you have something specific in there that you would like to share with us.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK, this is Mike Meader. I'm the Chief Safety and Security Officer. I have
Dan McClain, our Senior Manager of Safety here. And while I do pride myself on strict adherence
to Chair William's policy of simply asking questions of things you have in your packet, I think it
is important that we go through a few things here tonight.
What we've got is an update on the SMS progress, the roadmap, as well as kind of your first look
at a year, an annual 2019 safety data dashboard presentation for you. It has taken quite a bit of time
over the last couple of years to just really understand where all this disparate data existed in
databases. Dan's team's done a great job of pulling all of this together. So we want to kind of walk
through with this first time, and going forward, you'll get regular updates on the progress we're
making.
So with that said, I'm going to turn it over to Dan to walk through this briefly with you, and then
we'll take any questions you have after that. Thank you. Dan?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, this is Dan McClain, Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental, and
I will make this as quick as I can, but I do think there are some important things we need to go
through, just on the big change that FTA has put in. The first slide is really where they were and,
actually, where RTD was to where we're going.

RTD and the transit agencies were mostly compliance-based. Compliance-based for RTD meant
that we were in compliance with PUC rules, and that compliance is just a small part of safety.
Safety management systems, the next slide, what that looks like, safety culture. The key takeaway
here, two key takeaways on this slide is that the shared values, actions, and behaviors that
demonstrate commitment to safety over competing goals and demands. That's the safety culture
that we need to have. And that SMS is a top down, data driven approach.
And then we'll get into the PTASP tasks that you approved in November was a snapshot of the
safety management system of how it is in November 1. The safety management system is a living,
breathing document. We're looking and changing and addressing and fixing things every day.
The other thing that's unique on the safety management system rule and the PTASP rule 673 is
that the Board and the accountable executive, as stated in the preamble of the rule, have the
ultimate responsibility and accountability for implementation, maintenance of the safety
management system of a public transit agency, and that includes has control over the human and
capital resources needed to develop and maintain both the public agency safety plan and the
agency's transit asset management plan. And these are tied together intentionally by the FTA.
Now we'll move on to the data. This is data that hasn't really been published and hasn't even been
mined and taken care of until 2019. Now what you have there is a total case rate of RTD. That
means when something happens at RTD, we fill out a first report of injury. This is employee
injuries. So that means, if something happened, they slipped and fell on ice, they were in an
accident, whatever it was, they have a first report of injuries. So that's all of them.
And there's the rate, you can see the 2018 rate was 14, almost 15, and the 2020 rate, or 2019 rate
was even more, about 20% more. The OSHA rates are what you compare with outside agencies
and with industry itself. The national average for OSHA industries, and these are all industries,
from manufacturing to transportation to office is 3.0. The national average for the transportation
is six. Ours for 2019 was 12.
Now when I said an event, total recordable, this shows what percentage. So we had 44% lost time
injuries, we had 22% medical injuries, and then we had 34% that were record only. That means
that they didn't go to the doctor. There were no costs associated with it.
Next slide shows you the historic performance of RTD in terms of OSHA-related injuries, which
means that they were other than first aid. So they had to go to a medical doctor and they performed,
whether it was a prescription or whether it was a hospitalization. You see here the lost times. So
the lost times for RTD in 2019 was 226 lost times. That means 226 employees were hurt bad
enough that they missed days of work, and some of them many days. And that's disproportionate
compared to industry. Usually you have less loss times than you do medical injuries.
The next slide, give you some idea, and are included because we talked about operator shortage.
We've talked about what's the impact. These are raw numbers of the types of injuries that happen
from cost codes related to operators that are based out of Boulder, based out of East Metro, based
out of Platte, and based out of the light rail fleet.

To normalize that data, we use the OSHA formula, which shows you how many injuries per 100
employees you have. So that is looking at, although, if you look back at the previous slide, East
Metro had the most injuries. But when you normalize it, they're not the highest. They have more
hours. They have more employees, therefore they're not as apt to get hurt. Where you look at the
light rail operators, they're the, 35 per 100 are getting injured.
Next slide is the cost that it costs from our risk, our self-insured pool. These are direct costs.
National Safety Councils and others say that the direct plus the indirect, the indirect costs are
usually five to 50 more, 50 times more than the direct cost. But these are our direct costs that we
have paid out so far this year in injuries. You can see those by location, but you can also see the
total for RTD. And the total for RTD, we had 342 employees injured in 2019. Again, the highest
ever.
The next slide is the bus performance. And just the takeaways here, is the trends from 2019, which
are the blue bars in, you see that were higher there, but were normal. There really isn't been any
improvement on what we've done even in preventables.
Next slide talks about the costs associated with our property damage and the liability. Liability are
anybody that's a passenger or someone that were affected by RTD and we're responsible for the
costs. $2.4 million there, 753 claims.
Rail safety. We talked about this a little bit in November. We've had six fatalities on the system.
Two suicides in commuter rail, for pedestrians, two on commuter rail and two on light rail. Red
signal violations, here's the snapshot from 2016. We had a spike in 2017, and there's been a lot of
work to lower that, where we ended up with 62 in 2019.
Other parts of rail safety is the Public Utilities Commission compliance. The spring audit, we did
have nine findings and three corrective action plans that were required. Overall in 2019, we had
12 corrective action plans required. 11 of those were closed past due.
The other graph is what we have, is a two-hour reportable events to PUC and FTA. Those are
about six different types of event that they have determined that they need to know of right away
in case they have to respond. And you can see that is kind of static over the four year period.
The rest is what are we doing about it. We did a gap analysis in 2019. We had it validated and
developed a roadmap. The consultants that we have employed will be here in March, and some of
them will be in the first week in March, be looking to get some time with you to talk to you or
exchange emails with you to get more information about what you know about SMS, what you
know about the roles, what's your responsibilities.
And then we'll have a working session on March 31. Right? [INTERPOSING VOICES]
Currently what we're doing that's listed there, defining the roles for safety management systems
for all levels, developing a risk registry, we're currently undertaking internal safety audits.

The next page is what else we're doing. The big thing that should be noticed on this page is that
we will begin our review of our PTASP and SMS and management system review in August,
which will be reviewing all our events that we've had, all our performance, and what we've been
able to implement to actually get out and prevent some of these from happening.
And the last two pages are just our goals that we agreed upon and the PTASP that was approved
in November.
MICHAEL MEADER: Any questions? I know that was kind of fast.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, we read it. We looked at it closely. And I appreciate that you all shared
the goals with us and we can look forward to more of this in March. I do see people have questions.
Director Menten, you were first on the draw.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Packet page 31, page is titled Rail Safety 2019.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yep.
NATALIE MENTEN: Talks about the corrective action plans. I'll wait till you get there.
All right, and so what you have stated in here is that there were 12 corrective action plans required.
And one note, just because until then I didn't know what the CIP was. Could you put a little
asterisk? I know what it's doing. It wants to bump into the graph. Could you maybe put that in
there, just for-MICHAEL MEADER: Sure, that was an oversight. Sorry about that.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I do that myself.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. But besides that, so 12 corrective action plans required, and
then it says 11 closed past due. I don't know what that means. 11 closed is pretty obvious. What is
past due, and where's the one that's still hanging?
DAN MCCLAIN: So 11 of, so in the corrective actions, we agree upon what we're going to do by
when. The PUC comes back and evaluates whether or not we've closed them. They came back past
the time we should have had them closed, and our evidence that we gave them showed that we
weren't complete in the timely manner that we'd agreed upon before, when we submitted the cap.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so we need to work faster or something.
MICHAEL MEADER: Right, this tells us where we need to concentrate on process improvement.
So we're implementing those processes. Obviously, we're not pleased with these numbers, this
data, but it is what it is. We at least know what it is so we can understand where we need to focus
our efforts in improving those processes.

NATALIE MENTEN: And then where is the one that is not mentioned, since 12 were required?
MICHAEL MEADER: That's the derailment. So in January 2019, the derailment over at Sable and
Expo, the PUC, so we submitted our corrective action plan. The PUC had additional information
that they requested. Part of that information required Siemens to provide reports and do some
analysis, as well as the door manufacturer. So it's taken quite a bit of time to get those reports.
We do now have those in hand. We just met with the PUC. We're getting ready to submit that
formally, and we should be able to close that one out as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. Thank you. That answers my questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. That was good. Doctor Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. There's obviously been an increase in incidences. Do
you attribute that to the fact that there's been so much turnover and so you've got so many new
employees out there, and perhaps there's new facilities where you haven't located all of the danger
points?
DAN MCCLAIN: So this is Dan McClain, Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental. I think
there are a lot of factors, in that we are out right now looking at things trying to discover, we're
doing investigations, let me back up. Prior to this, we were focused on compliance. So we were
focused on what the PUC said to do. There wasn't and there isn't yet an active mechanism to
determine causal factors of events that occur. That procedure is 95% in place, or in process,
because we're vetting with everybody, because it is a change.
What happened now and previously, somebody fills out a report of injury, it goes to loss, and then
it's gone. We don't learn from it. So we're putting in place an active event investigation process
that will allow us to learn from these things, predict, and then implement the corrective actions.
MICHAEL MEADER: We are certainly capturing more granular data, as well, to these incidents
so we can start looking at those kinds of trends to understand. Are these the newer operators that
we're seeing issues with, is there fatigue-related things to these, as we capture more information.
So we'll be able to understand those trends a little bit better as we capture this information better.
BOB BROOM: OK, Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair, I wanted to thank you for putting this plan in place. I know
it's a legal requirement, but it seems like a sea change from what we've had before. It's really a
holistic approach. And I, for one, as a board member, I'm really happy to receive this information.
Not that it's necessarily good information, but at least this is a baseline and we can start from here.

I am interested in the costs. I didn't realize that we were spending so much in paying injuries.
Could you let us know what the costs were, let's say, for the last 10 years? Have we increased a
lot?
DAN MCCLAIN: So I went back to 2013 when I started here last February and put together, took
the data that we had existing in our claims system, and I have that data to 2013. The data goes back
quite a ways. If we want to go back, the data is there. We just have to put that together.
JUDY LUBOW: Would that take a lot of time?
DAN MCCLAIN: I have to 2013. If you want me to do to 2010, I can put that together.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, from 2013 have we seen large increases?
DAN MCCLAIN: It's been, yes, it's been fairly consistent throughout that time. We average
between $3 and $5 million on workers comp and between $2 and $5 or $6 million on the property
and general liability.
MICHAEL MEADER: There is a lot of work we're still doing to just make sure we can ensure the
confidence of the data, because the way it's been collected, but we believe we can put a pretty close
correlation together to see what that trend is.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, so when can we see it?
DAN MCCLAIN: I can get it next week, by next week. I have the data from 2013.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, that would be good enough. I just wanted to see. It's probably going up.
All right. So I'm really looking forward to improvements, now that we're really looking into it
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Two questions. First has to do with the red signal
violations. And my guess means that that means the train went through a red light. Is that basically
what a red signal violation is?
DAN MCCLAIN: That's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: Do we know, I would guess most of these didn't result in any kind of property
damage or accident or anything, is it fair to say?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah. When they go through a red light, the train will stop. The ATC stops the
train. They have to key down and they have to key back up. So that's the safety protection built
into the system.

VINCE BUZEK: Is there any kind of discipline that happens to employees when they do this, or
have three strikes and you're out or something?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yes, like that. So one of the things that the PUC had required us in 2019, and
for most of 2019 we were developing corrective action plans for every red light signal. In fact, we
had 47 corrective action plans until they determined to a mitigation plan. It's a predetermined one,
two, three, and you're out. And each one, you have to have different types of training, reinstructions, re-check rides, and we're also initiating gathering more data to see if there's a certain
red light that's always ran, at a certain time of day. So it's just data that we haven't collected before.
We need to collect the data, verify the data, and then discover trends.
DAVE JENSEN: If I may? Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. And to add to what he's saying,
yes, there is discipline associated with that. One of the things that we did this last year was to
evaluate that and increase the level of discipline. But beyond that, what they're talking about is
really digging into finding a root cause. Because the operators aren't doing it on purpose. It's human
error. There's mistakes. And so organizationally we need to understand why it's happening and
preventing it from happening.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. My second question has to do with employee injuries on duty. And
my reading of the chart seems to indicate that we're pretty far above the national average, is that
fair to say?
DAN MCCLAIN: That's fair to say.
VINCE BUZEK: So once upon a time, a long time ago, I worked for a department of the city of
Chicago that had a lot of employees. And we had a very generous injury on duty policy. And as a
result, we had people that tended to abuse that policy. And I'm wondering if there's any
examination of that as a possibility what's going on here, and if there's any way to flush that out.
DAN MCCLAIN: Again, this is Dan McClain, Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental. I
work very closely with Lisa Stauff, which is in the legal department that manages our risk
department. They have adjusters or claims managers that validate and verify and vet these for
whether they're valid, the employee injuries and the passenger injuries. We have Video
Everywhere, so most all of those are video requested such that we can determine whether
somebody was, it's a valid claim or not.
VINCE BUZEK: Good.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah. So we we're pretty rigorous, and I've worked out in industry and I'd say
our rigor in vetting whether it's a valid claim is as good as any.
VINCE BUZEK: Good. Thanks so much. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Buzek, Director. Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Mike Meader, when we were talking about service cuts and
examining the reasons for it, one was the concern that the mandating overtime was contributing to
the rate. Now that was less prevalent with rail until 2019. But have you correlated the increase you
see in 2019 to the time when the mandating really spiked? Is that a big piece of that?
DAN MCCLAIN: So if you look at the injuries over where it has the medical injuries and the lost
time, where they're over the last few years, it really hasn't went up or down. Even though you
might think we've increased man hours or the number of people, it's relatively stable, around 5
million man hours per year. So it's really indicative of something that hasn't been managed
proactively.
But I will also say the data to manage fatigue, we haven't went out and captured that data. So a
fatigue management plan is a whole different setup, where we have to go out and actually actively
manage it. And we haven't managed it. It's just anecdotal that it contributes to the accidents.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I see, well, doesn't really matter, necessary, the page,
but it talks about the goals for 2020, preventing or at least reducing strain and some of the falls.
And those I can envision happening, but also sort of being, there's always so many days of snow
and there's people aren't taking any more baggage or, this isn't about lifting bags, but any more
than they did last year or 2013. But there's this spike. Can you talk at all about the range of injuries
that these 35 light rail operators might, or what they would have seen?
DAN MCCLAIN: So light rail operators, I don't have the data with me right now, but I can sort by
what type of injury that they have.
KEN MIHALIK: [INAUDIBLE] I mean, is it-DAN MCCLAIN: So typical light rail injuries, they're high in slips and falls, the light rail because
of walking out of the ballast, because of the ice. Our lobby facility has a north-facing area where
the drivers are, and that ice tends to stay there. They have to work around. And then walking on
the ballast when they're not on the apron that we have at the yards is always difficult.
And so that's probably the light rail operators. The other injuries we have in light rail would be
the, well, for light rail operators it's probably about 30% falls, and I can get you the exact data. So
I'm just speculating here. But the others are strains, like we have, struck by something. Sometimes
the handicap ramp, when we put it in and out they'll get injured.
So sometimes moving an ADA passenger. We've had ones where the electric wheelchair runs over
their foot or whatever else as they're trying to assist. So I can get you the exact data. There's just a
very, but I would say the most would be slip and falls for them.

KEN MIHALIK: OK. I know you're compiling all this data and you're running all these regression
analysis to find out if there was sun glare, maybe, at the time of when the trip and fall, OK. Yeah,
and you'll present that in more information in March. So we're looking forward to that.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah. Overall we've got to get better at gathering the data when something
happens than just a witness statement is that I slipped and fell. I don't have enough data there. And
so it's just getting the organization to have the systems and the rigor to gather the data so we can
make the right decisions.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thanks, that's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lubow, is it your first time this time? OK, then you're
going to have to wait, because I don't think Director Folska has had a chance.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. Is this on? OK. Director Whitmore and I
celebrated the Chinese New Year over at the building in 711, and we had a wonderful opportunity
to visit with the operators and some students. And by the way, it's a fantastic facility. And I think
we did a good job with the money that the Board allocated to make that building available.
One of the operators that started with RTD as a bus driver, then moved on to becoming an operator,
which in the old days, you know, was the way you did it. You start with the bus and then you go
to the light rail. Now he's in safety for the North Rail line. And he said that because of mandating,
he was so excited about his one day off and had been a long time since he'd had a day off, and all
he could think about was what he was going to do on that one day off.
And as a result, wasn't paying attention to anything but what he was going to do on that one day
off and almost ran the red light. And so he had to drop the sand and all this. And he made the light,
but I'm wondering if the mandating, it's not so much that it's fatigue, it's just fantasizing about all
the things you want to accomplish in your one day off, you know? So I think maybe try to take a
look at that kind of thing, as well.
DAN MCCLAIN: Yes, we will. We have looked at the fatigue management plans, which are
comprehensive. They look at what your off duty is, what your on duty is, what your sleep time is,
what your commute time is. They're very comprehensive. But they're a big undertaking to do. So
we need to look at what we need to do and get better correlation between mandating and fatigue.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But I think this is a little more than fatigue. This is more like in the realm
of happiness.
MICHAEL MEADER: Right.
DAN MCCLAIN: Well, and in fatigue, they talk about other things like doctor's appointment, kids,
wife, everything else that's consuming your mental space, your cognitive ability, because the less
sleep you get and the more work you do and the less time off between work, it impairs your
cognitive ability.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Perfect. Thank you so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do you think that will apply to how late we're here tonight?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Happiness?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, cognitive abilities. OK, if we are trying to, we still have a lot of work to
do yet tonight, and it's after 10:00. So if you have something absolutely burning that you cannot
discuss with the staff later, that you need to have on the public record now, I'm going to let you
speak. But I'm suggesting that it be that topic. It looks like, Director Lubow, you're up next.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'll talk very quickly. You know, I'm very glad that you're having this
comprehensive, holistic plan. But I am still concerned that the record is not good. And do you have
enough staff to improve things? Do we need to think about giving more priority to what you do?
Because this is, having this many accidents is not a good thing, and injuries.
DAN MCCLAIN: I think that that's the role that they envisioned, when they said the Board was
accountable is to you guys look and see what we need. I will say that throwing people at things
isn't always a solution. I'd say being safe and having systems at work take leadership. It takes
defining the priorities, executing the priorities well, and then moving to the next priority.
And so that's developing this system, looking at our priorities, what should we work on? Should
we work on this or this? Should we put money to this or this that will make us improve? And then
setting goals and making sure that we can achieve them, that we keep going down instead of just
not managing. Just because we can make national average doesn't mean we can't go lower. We got
to know what we say or do to be impactful.
MICHAEL MEADER: And this is Mike Meader. It's a combination of things, certainly. It's people,
it's technology, it's the process, it's the commitment that leadership has to improving those things.
Rest assured we'll keep you informed about the things we're trying to accomplish and where we
feel we need other resources. And we'll certainly have some kind of a business case to try to justify
those, should we come to you to talk about those things in the future.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: You bet.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: This is a serious question.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Red signal violations in a closer analysis, I know that I've gotten complaints
since I've gotten on the Board about some of the connections, the lights around the convention
center, downtown of , by Colfax. Where can we expect, perhaps, a little more detail on this, and

how much we need to, perhaps, bring in some other cities? Because I can speak to, like, the Elati
visit, some of those new drivers, that was first thing [INAUDIBLE] said. It is so confusing on
working on parts this system. And we really think part of that solution has to be for the city.
Now I know I've heard from drivers on the other side. That's part of the problem. So my only
question right now is, what would be the best way to get some more details about that? Can you
just send me information later?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, we can get you more information. And Dave's up to the mic, but red
lights on the rail system are red lights on the rail system, and they're clearly distinct. And when we
come downtown the red lights are called T signals, which they're the crossbar or the go bar. And
so you want to speak to that?
MICHAEL MEADER: This is Mike Meader too. There's a lot of coordination between the city
traffic control, and, obviously, our systems as well. So it's the timing, it's preempting signals, it's
those kinds of things. Along with blankout signs that are coordinated with traffic movement and
the train movements as well. So it's pretty complex. We're always working with the city. That area
around the convention center right there does have some unique concerns with entrances from
alleyways behind the hotel to the right of way, and the turns that we make there as well.
So it is kind of a delicate balancing act. But we're constantly working with the city to improve. In
fact, we're focusing on that area right now because of some trend we see in some of the incidents.
NATALIE MENTEN: So that was the main thing, is that I just had heard it for so many years, and
I kept kind of pushing it to the side. And now with it seeing, and the fact that, very notable, they
were celebrating because the red signal violations have gone down. Good, right? But we always
want to be better. So thank you. I know we are trying to get this done, but a car and a train and
pedestrian, you know, kind of important thing.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good discussion. I'm not debating that. I'm just thanking you gentlemen very
much for all the work that you do on this all the time, and we look forward to the March
presentation well we will continue to learn more.
We would now have other matters. Are there any other matters to have the nerve to be brought
before this committee?
[LAUGHTER]
Hearing none, I have other interesting news. This committee will meet again on March 10. Right
now I will entertain a motion to move into executive session for a conference with our legal
counsel.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
Second.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Is there any discussion? Can I see a show of hands? Everybody's
ready to do this? Ladies and gentlemen, you may go home. Good night. Thank you very much,
unless you are relevant to this discussion. Henry, don't leave the room.
[LAUGHTER]
Everybody else, we thank you all. Please be careful going home. We're going to just take a quick
nature break before we move on. So if anybody needs to leave the room for a minute, jump in with
everybody else.

