2021-02-23
Board Meeting
SPEAKER 1: You have joined the meeting as an attendee and will be muted throughout the meeting.
[INTRO MUSIC]
Welcome to the meeting. Enter your meeting ID, followed by the pound. You have not entered any
numbers. Please re-enter your meeting ID, followed by pound.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, so.
SPEAKER 1: Enter your participant ID followed by pound. Otherwise, just press pound to continue. You
have joined the meeting as an attendee, and will be muted throughout the meeting.
[AUDIO OUT]
KATE WILLIAMS: It looks like the Chair has been-- just lost her connection.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Having sort of repeated internet troubles.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's also worth noting Director Broom and Nancy Mooney are not muted. Much better.
Can we make an announcement that we're waiting for the Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think you just did, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You all, the Chair is with me. We're going to get her logged in the office right next to
me.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms Johnson. Director Guissinger, you are also unmuted.
[AUDIO OUT]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Have we made an announcement that others can hear? Are we live at this point?
KATE WILLIAMS: I believe that we are alive, and we are just waiting for the Chair to get her technology
straightened out so that we can start the meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
[AUDIO OUT]
KATE WILLIAMS: Ms Johnson, I'm going to ask that we wait a couple more minutes, and then perhaps
the Vice Chair could run the meeting so that we could proceed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you have some progress there?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes Director Williams and yes Director Guissinger, the Chair is in the process of
being set up right now. I will ascertain what the timeline is on that and apprise accordingly, so we can get
on with the people's business. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: We'll give Ms Johnson another minute or two to come back and inform us, and then
I think we'll go ahead and start the meeting. And have the Chair join us when she can.
JOHN MCKAY: Director Guissinger, she's still getting set up at the moment. She's just getting her link
back. Are you able to start the meeting?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am. John can you pull the agenda back down, it's gone up to like a page three or
something. Please, thank you. All right. I am calling this meeting to order. I'm Lynn Guissinger, I'm the
First Vice Chair. It is about 18 minutes until 6:00. We apologize for the delay, the Chair is having troubles
with her internet or getting online or something. So this is a remote meeting of the Board of Directors on
Tuesday, February 23, 2021.
We will dispense with the Pledge of Allegiance since we're virtual at this point. I don't have a safety
moment set up, but I think our safety moment continues to be careful and wear your masks. Now they say
that two masks provide more protection and to get our vaccines. When your number comes up, when
you're entitled, it's very important that we get our vaccines and encourage other people around us to do it.
Ms McManus or Mr. MacKay, I-DEBRA JOHNSON: Vice Chair Guissinger, will you commence with the meeting please?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have started. Thank you. Yeah, it's OK. That's OK. I was just finishing a very brief
safety moment, and asking Ms. McManus to-- or Mr. McKay to do the roll please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. This is Barbara McManus. Director-- Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom? Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIC DAVIDSON: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TREY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here. I would like everybody to know that you can unmute yourself
by pushing alt A, if that helps anybody who gets stuck.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, I show 13 present, two absent, with one pending. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I thought I saw Bob Broom, so-KATE WILLIAMS: He is. Director Broom is here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Maybe he's having trouble moving or something. But it sounds like he's here. And
then the Chair I think is pending, right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Retiree awards, we have none tonight. So we're at public participation. Public
participation, I don't know, do we have-- well I'll take the part that I know without having anything in front
of me, which is that it's three minutes. And we typically don't respond. It's a chance for the public to come
in and speak to us. Do we have people signed up, Ms McManus and Mr McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: Director Guissinger, this is John McKay. For tonight's public participation, we'll ask
anyone who wants to speak to the Board to raise their virtual hands if they're logged into the meeting, or if
they're dialed into the meeting they can also hit *9. And once the staff unmutes that person, that person
will can toggle the mute settings on his or her phone by hitting *6.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you just repeat that-JOHN MCKAY: So for those folks-- thank you. For those folks who are logged into the meeting to get
yourself into the queue for public participation, you want to hit the Raise Hand button on your screen, for
those folks who are logged in. For anyone who's dialed into the meeting, you'll want to hit *9. At the
appropriate time, you'll want to toggle your mute settings by hitting *6.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Do we have anyone who has raised their virtual hand, or is indicating that
they would like to speak? Who can help me with that answer, is that Mr McKay? Do we have any one
that's raised their hand or as indicated they would like to speak?
JOHN MCKAY: I do not see anyone in the queue.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Give it just a few more seconds.
[BEEPS]
OK. I am taking a look, I apologize. I'm pulling up the information, but the agenda has disappeared. So is
it-- can you help me, Mr McKay? There we go. You can bring it down. Great, committee reports. Have the
committee reports-- do we have any comment or question or a concern about the committee reports?
No? Do we have a motion to approve the committee reports?
KATE WILLIAMS: Sole move, Director Williams.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams. And a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Director Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Director Bouquet. All right, now I'll ask again. Do we have any comment or
discussion? All right. All in favor? Aye.
KATE WILLIAMS: Aye.
TREY WHITMORE: Aye.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update, is
that Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: It is, Madam Chair. Thank you. Nothing to report. There are two items on the consent
agenda that came out of the GMOC at the last meeting, and our next meeting is next week, March 4th.
3:00 PM. And I again want to thank all of the members and participants of the GMOC for all of their hard
work. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I don't yet have the script, so let's see. We are at approval of a Board meeting
minutes from our January 26, I think it says, 2021 meeting. Do we have a motion to approve?
DOUG TISDALE: Move to approve the Board meeting minutes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale's made the motion. Do we have second?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Buzek second. Any comment? All right. Any objection to approving the Board
meeting minutes? All right, so approved. Chair's report, I guess we will skip that for now. Angie's still-- our
Chair's still working to get on. How about our General Manager's report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening to you and Board members,
and to all who are virtually assembled. I'm Debra Johnson the General Manager and CEO of the Regional
Transportation District. My brief report is outlined within my transitional plan priorities of exercising
organizational stewardship and financial responsibility, engaging employees and optimizing service
delivery, and engaging stakeholders and building partnerships.
Within the auspices of my organizational stewardship priorities, since January 11, the day in which RTD
received notice of its Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021, known
as CRRSA, the apportionment of $203 million, my top priority has been to restore the agency's workforce.
Since my last report to this body on January 26th, recall notices have been sent to 152 part-time
employees. Those are bus operators. Of those notices since, 99 individuals have responded.
As of February 19th, 74 part-time bus operators have been retrained and re-entered into Revenue
Service. There are 25 individuals currently scheduled for either a drug screen or training. As of February
19th, 14 individuals had notified the agency that they would not be returning. The 15-day recall period
ended on Saturday, February 20th.
As part of the agency's Revenue Service Delivery Role Up which I spoke with you about previously,
approximately 60 positions that remained unfilled due to previous vacancies will be filled ranging from
certified mechanics to dispatchers and other positions in between associated with Revenue Service
Delivery. RTD is still awaiting specific guidance from the Federal Transit Administration regarding the
requirements and allowable expenditures necessary to draw the $203 million that have been apportioned
to us under CRRSA.
As part of the agency's recently enhanced efforts to foster community and stakeholder engagement,
stakeholder engagement listening sessions have been underway for the past several weeks. During the
week of January 25th, staff met with representative to hear about their needs relative to service delivery
from the Denver Public Schools. During the week of February 8th, meetings included listening sessions
with the Boulder Local Coordinating Council and the Ability for All.
During the week of February 15th, meetings, listening sessions were had with the Denver Local
Coordinating Council, the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee, and the regional TMO, TMA meeting held

through DRCOG, and there were specific geographic sector stakeholder-- stakeholder listening sessions
within Boulder County, the Northwest geographic sector, as well as the Northeast.
Rounding out these sessions this week, there will be geographic sector stakeholder listening sessions in
both the Southwest and the Southeast geographic sectors. In addition to the aforementioned, I have
actively engaged in nearly 50 meetings, participated in media interviews and served on panels. I will
reference a few meetings with some of RTDs congressional delegation and their respective staffs,
meetings I've held with the Vice Chair of the House Transportation Committee and the Chair of the
Senate Transportation Committee here at the state level in Colorado.
Other state legislators, I served as a panelist with the Transit Center in a session entitled New CEOs,
Take the Helm. Participated in a few meetings with APTA as it pertains to the peer reviews in which RTD
has underway, specifically addressing our internal auditing function as well as safety and security.
Additionally, I met with leadership from the Southwest Transit Association and participated in a ride along
on the in-line with the commuter rail supervisor.
In addition to that, I engaged with employees in the Capital Programs and Bus Operations Departments
through departmental meetings held there. As we as an agency look to RTDs road to recovery, a session
will be held on March 9th with this body. The intent is to garner input from the Board on developing a
ridership growth action plan as we expand our planning and manage expectations around our transit
service delivery model. In a nutshell, it's how do we reshape RTD 2.0?
So I encourage you to come forward with your ideas as we collectively discuss our customers pain points
to find the problems we are trying to solve and then ideate. Staff can take those ideas and concepts, et
cetera and flesh them out to chart the agency's road to recovery, and bring those back to the Board with
options and recommendations. That completes my-- that that completes my report Madam Chair. Thank
you very kindly for the opportunity.
NIKKI CAREY: Director Guissinger, Director Dishell has his hands up.
KATE WILLIAMS: And you are muted, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was asking for questions or comments. So Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you Director Guissinger, and thank you General Manager and CEO Johnson. I
have a question about a peer review, which I am very much in favor of, but I'm curious if we have any
information on how well our peer reviewers are doing their job as it pertains to audit. Because the
strength of a peer review is only going to be based on how well those individuals do that function which
they're reviewing.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell for the question you posed. Recognizing that
one of the individuals that leaving the peer review is the-- she leads the charge at the Washington
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority and chairs the audit review committee for the American Public
Transportation Association in her stead. Additionally, the other participants revolve around New York
Metro Transit Agency.
I don't have that information readily available, but I can share that the entities of which we are looking at
do have best practices that the industry looks to. They all adhere to the guidelines specified with the entity
that oversees the International Association of Auditors or whatever the appropriate nomenclature is. So
recognizing when we put forward this recommendation to the American Public Transportation

Association, there was certain eligibility criteria that which needed to be met in order for them to actually
have the authority to review our internal auditing functions.
So with that as a backdrop, I'd be remiss not to mention as well that the individual who serves as the
Chief Financial Officer for APTA actually comes from the space where he served as an auditor in a public
municipality and is highly revered in that space. So with that information as a backdrop, that's how we
went about developing the panelists and had an opportunity to engage with them and ask them active
questions before we undertook this endeavor. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any other questions or comments? I'm not seeing anything unless
someone else is. All right, we're at the unanimous consent portion of the agenda. There are four items on
the unanimous consent agenda, listed under item 11 as actions A through D. Approval of 15L Route
Improvements Change Order. The second one is Equitable Transit Oriented Development or TOD policy.
The third is 2021 General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee Charter, the
GMOC Charter. And fourth, the First Amendments to CEO General Manager Employment Agreement. If
anyone has a change to or questions on one of-- any one of these items, please feel free to advise the
Chair at this time. And we will, of course, be happy to pull it from the unanimous consent agenda for
consideration under recommended action.
BOB BROOM: Group approval, Director Broom.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom has moved approval of the-TREY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second from Whitmore. No one wanting to pull any of these actions off the
unanimous consent agenda? Great. Any comments, any concerns any discussion? Not seeing any.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, this is Director Dishell.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I just want to make sure, and this might be my newness to the Board, that resolution
number is going to get numbered for the record prior to being sealed, or however we-- whatever the
proper nomenclature is. Seeing a lot of yes, so I'll withdraw that question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I was just looking to see. OK, we have a motion and a second to approve the
unanimous consent agenda. Director Broom and Director Tisdale, and no discussion. All in favor of the
unanimous consent agenda so aye.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any opposed? OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger, I think it would be better if you asked for folks to raise their
hand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Could everyone in favor, please raise your hand to be counted.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Or their virtual hand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: can we just raise our regular hand? [INTERPOSING VOICES] Ms. McManus, will
you just let me know when that's all counted?
KATE WILLIAMS: Let it be noted for the record that technology proficiency was not part of the criteria for
running for this position.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are we set, Ms. McManus?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well I am seeing nine hands, and the folks that are on the phone, you'll have to
ask verbally.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK let's see who is on the phone. I think Bob Broom, are you-- what is your vote on
this?
BOB BROOM: I'm a yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, is Chair Rivera-Malpiede on at this point? Let's see. She just texted me. She
can't get on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm a yes, but I can only do audio.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. Is there someone else that's on the phone? Let's see, how many we
have? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12. I count 12 here, and the Chair and
Director Broom. Is there anyone missing, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I only am seeing 12-- I'm only seeing that same amount as well, I'm sorry that I
am not able to see all of this. I take it back I count 13 on the Zoom. And 6 and I think we have a
unanimous vote no one just popped in.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we have unanimous consent.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right should I read the language, they're here on my-- after the vote. They're
here on my list, should I read the language of the four?
KATE WILLIAMS: Well we're already approved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, all right. Let's see recommended action. All of our recommended actions were
addressed under the unanimous consent agenda. So there are no recommended actions. There is no
executive session scheduled for this evening. So we are at old business. And the item listed here for old
business is Reimagine Guiding Principles. We have one item listed under old business regarding
Reimagine RTD. And I'll ask CEO and General Manager Debra Johnson to open that discussion please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Madam Chair. Before you as you indicated pursuant to what's
outlined on the agenda, we will be revisiting Reimagine RTD. Introducing that topic, it'll be a multipronged approach being handled by Bill Van Meter who serves as our Assistant General Manager of
Planning.
And additionally, we have Holly Buck who is part of our consulting team. And I will be rounding out the
discussion, speaking more specifically to the Guiding Principles and the need for such. So with that, I will
yield the floor to Bill Van Meter to kick us off, Bill.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you General Manager Johnson. Good set up in segue. As General Manager
Johnson identified, I will be doing a tag team approach to an update on the Guiding Principles. Holly
Buck, who is the Project Manager for Reimagine RTD with FHU will kick things off. The focus here is on
Guiding Principles for Reimagine RTD.
We're revisiting those, looking to have a good, solid discussion with you today, and then with the intent of
bringing them back to you for action and adoption in the April time frame. We'll get some more of those
details through this presentation. But we want to ground you on where we are on Reimagine RTD, both
the comprehensive assessment of services, system optimization plan, as well as the phase we're really
moving into now, setting the framework for the mobility plan for the future.

So we have a brief presentation. It'll be tag team, and then we're open for discussion. I'm going to turn it
over to Holly and attempt to share the screen all at the same time. Host disabled participants screen
sharing. Can someone enable my screen sharing? Bill Van Meter, AGM of Planning. Trying to navigate
technology and speak intelligently is a challenge for me.
JOHN MCKAY: You guys think-- this is John McKay online, I can share my screen here Bill. If you could
just tell me when you want to advance.
BILL VAN METER: OK that would be great. And we're going to have Holly Buck kick this off. So again,
Holly Buck, Project Manager with FHU on the consultant team, Holly.
HOLLY BUCK: Great. Thank you so much, Billy. I'm Holly Buck, FHU Project Manager. Our goal today, I
think Bill covered it really well, our goal today is to review the new and updated set of Guiding Principles
that we've developed for Reimagine RTD, and give you a bit of background on how they were developed.
But before we launch into those, we just want to make sure that everybody has the same background on
where we are with Reimagine RTD.
I know we have some new Board members, and we also have not talked about it in a while, so I thought
maybe just a bit of background to get us all on the same page. So if we want to go to the next slide, that
would be great. So the Reimagine process is, it's really a two year process that answers what's next for
RTD. And of course we've been paused for a while, so end to end, it'll be a bit longer than two years to
account for that pause.
But the first year of Reimagine going on, we focused on developing a system optimization plan. And this
was really a-- we started with a detailed evaluation of all the services that you provide today. We got input
from stakeholders on what's working well and what isn't, and ultimately we made a set of
recommendations or a system optimization plan for a modified structure that increased ridership and
productivity in a fiscally constrained environment.
That was completed at the middle of last year just before the project went on hold as a result of COVID19, but there were some incremental steps for the implementation of the SOP that took place in January
as part of your 2021 January run board. This second phase of Reimagine RTD that we're just getting
started with, is the creation of a long term vision. And we call that-- it's called the mobility plan for the
future. It really addresses the region's future mobility need and helps to define what RTD's role in regional
mobility is, and what that will look like.
The vision is expected to leverage your current investments, what you've already-- what you've already
put on the ground today, which has been a lot of great stuff, and build on the technology advancements
that we're seeing in our transportation industry. It's a pretty exciting time to be in transportation. There's a
lot of stuff going on. So how can we leverage some of that technology moving forward for RTD to support
that mobility throughout the region?
And then ultimately, the mobility plan for the future is intended to ensure that RTD remains competitive
and relevant for the next generation of riders and into the future. So there's a lot of pieces and parts that
fall under those two sections of Reimagine RTD. This graphic just tries to simplify some of those big
overarching topics that are touched upon in each of those two segments of Reimagine RTD.
The first one, the light blue bubbles, talk about all the things that we reviewed and evaluated as part of
that system optimization plan, over the last year. The dark blue bubbles talk about all the pieces that we
will be evaluating as part of the mobility plan for the future. And then the gray bubbles are initiatives that

are happening outside of the Reimagine scope of work, but certainly have an influence on that scope of
work. So we keep an eye on those as well. Bill?
BILL VAN METER: And this is for me, Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. In August of 2020, the Board of
Directors had discussions with staff regarding the timing and the future of Reimagine RTD and expressed
some concerns about proceeding forward at that time. In consultation with then GM Ballard and with the
Board of Directors, we made the decision to pause Reimagine RTD in August through early this year.
And there were a number of reasons that influenced that decision, they are listed on the slide for your
edification. It is now early January 20, 2001. Next slide, please. And so we are in the restart phase for
Reimagine RTD as we informed the Board earlier this month in a memo from GM Johnson, or through
GM Johnson to you. We feel it's an opportune time for the Board and the new GM to give direction on
future-- on their future visions for RTD.
We've also had the opportunity to have a better understanding of monitoring and our response to COVID
impacts, and we feel it's important as well if there is additional federal infrastructure or other funding to
make sure that we have our plans and priorities well understood in order to jump on those potential
opportunities. Next slide, please.
Holly discussed the system optimization plan and how we use the information to inform the January 2021
run board and made significant progress on that. Going forward, we are planning on developing a phased
implementation report through the course of this year. It will be looking at peer agencies response to
COVID and their plans for the restoration of service post-COVID.
And our intent is working closely with service planning, service development to develop metrics and
milestones stones that will help inform the Board and staff on decisions around reinstating services that
have been impacted by COVID. So that we have a good understanding of how to reinstate services
moving forward, looking at financial revenue impacts, performance and ridership, as well as economic
and employment trends and responses in the district.
So the SOP will be moving forward, although our focus is turning more towards the mobility plan for the
future. Next slide, please. Holly.
HOLLY BUCK: Thank you, Holly Buck, Felsburg Holt and Ullevig. So what are Guiding Principles? This
side really tries to just break down what they are and what we're trying to accomplish with them. Really,
they're value statements that guide decision-making. They guide decision-making on the types of service
you provide, where you provide it, who you provide it to, how you provide it. It doesn't dictate exactly-- no
dictating here but overarching values and guiding principles on what that might look like.
And these really will set the framework for the mobility plan for the future. So when completed, the
mobility plan for the future becomes an all encompassing set of policies and partnerships, capital
investments, operating enhancements that respond to these Guiding Principles that we're going to talk
about today. And then if we want to go to the next slide, we put together a fairly simplistic-- I'll just caution
you that the examples we put together are truly just examples.
And they're very simplistic. If we want to go to the next slide, we can look at the example. There we go.
Thank you. So this helps us understand how these Guiding Principles inform objectives and strategies.
So we can see that in the Guiding Principles column, going through example one, our objective here is to
increase access to transportation to those in need. This would have a Guiding principle probably touch on
Guiding Principles of equity and mobility.

Strategies, one of the strategies, there could be several strategies that come forward to help support this,
but one of them could be upgrading all your stops and stations to meet ADA requirements. The time
frame for this, because there are thousands of stops, is we've identified a long term time frame. And the
responsibility here would come to RTD of course, working with your cities and counties, your partner
agencies to try and get that implemented over that time frame.
So while this is a simplistic example, it does provide you a framework of how all of these pieces and parts
come together. And then, if we want to go to the next slide. This is a quick review. So for those of you
who have been on the Board, if you're not new to the Board, you'll recognize this as being an activity that
was put together at the beginning of Reimagine RTD when we started the system optimization plan. And
at the outset of that, staff developed a broad set of Guiding Principles that were brought to the Board.
We asked the Board to identify the top five priorities to help guide Reimagine RTD. And you can see,
these are the survey results that came through that activity. You can see that fiscal responsibility lands
right at the top. And this is even before COVID, so this was something that we were focused on even
then. System sustainability is the next one. There's a lot of overlap here, because we're talking about
maintenance of your fleet and facility and your state of good repair.
So those two go together, and you can see that the next four are all pretty closely right behind that
second one, which is system sustainability. We used this information, and we sought more feedback from
the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee that we worked with over the last year of
Reimagine RTD during the SOP.
We came to the Board several times. And we also got input from the public, both riders and non-rides. All
of that to help inform the Guiding Principles that General Manager Johnson is going to step us through
now.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Ms Buck. As indicated with the outset of the comments
framing what we're discussing here today, the imperative aspect to any comprehensive operational
analysis of which Reimagine RTD is, are the Guiding Principles. Because for all intents and purposes, the
Guiding Principles serve as the foundation upon which decisions are made relative to mobility options
service delivery.
So with that as a backdrop, we're looking at this is a five pronged approach, and you can clearly see them
illustrated on the slide before you. We talk about mobility. We talk about equity. We talk about financial
partnerships, workforce's sustainability. Those are the five principles. So when we talk about mobility,
when we are looking to make informed decisions, we need to do a temperature check. And say, is this
mobility option really enhancing the quality of our life for our residents, our customer and visitors within
our vast service area?
Then stepping forward looking at equity, which is paramount and should be paramount to all we do. Are
we looking through the lens to say, is this mobility option really and truly removing barriers to ensure that
customers have the freedom to get where they need to go when they need to get there? And then, when
you talk about our finances.
When we think about the responsibility that we have as being public stewards, we need to ensure when
we are making decisions that we are focused upon how we are leveraging our resources and maximizing
costs for the betterment efficiencies-- of efficiencies than optimization I would qualify it as. And then as we
look to being real partners, and when I say real partners I emphasize that because when we look at
transportation as we clearly know, there can be intersectionality. There can be complementary systems.

There could be other avenues in which we can leverage to broaden our reach of moving people to and
fro. So in doing such, we need to ensure that we are identifying innovative opportunities to enhance
mobility throughout the region. And keeping in mind that we are people in the people business, and this
agency is made up of people. You as the Board, us as staff. But we cannot do the jobs that we
respectively have without leveraging the most important asset, which is the human aspect.
And so we need to ensure throughout this process that we are leveraging our diverse workforce and
ensuring that we're promoting engagement and innovation as we move forward. And then, last but
certainly not least rounding out this five pronged approach, is sustainability. We want to ensure that we
are reducing the carbon footprint. We want to ensure that we are leading a transportation network that
can be viable for futures to come-- for future generations to come.
And basically, what does that mean for all of us? Because even if people aren't utilizing our transportation
system, what are we doing holistically as an agency that's benefiting the greater region in which we are
moving people? So summing that up, the Guiding Principles are the basic foundation upon which we will
use as we go through this comprehensive operation analysis as we look at the system optimization plan
and make informed decisions. Next slide. I'll yield the floor back to Mr Van Meter to round us out.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. So I gave a sneak preview during my introductory remarks as to the next
steps regarding Guiding Principles. So we are presenting this to you tonight. I would be willing to and
happy to engage in a discussion, and hear any of your thoughts or feedback in early March. We will have- we have the intent of continuing to receive your input.
We will be presenting a similar-- making a similar presentation and presenting the same Guiding
Principles to both the Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee in their first set of meetings
during this Reimagine restart on March 10th and 11th. Our intent is to then take the input that we received
from the Board tonight through early March, and from the Technical Working Group an Advisory
Committee, make any changes necessary.
Incorporate your thoughts and comments, and bring it back to the Board's planning Capital Programs and
Fast Tracks Committee in April for committee consideration, and then for adoption later that month. So
that's our proposed timeline and schedule moving forward. At this point, I would-- Madam Chair, I would
welcome any questions, discussion or dialogue.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Thanks for the presentation. It's nice to have you back, Ms.
Buck. And nice to see this launching again. I think I will run through the list of Directors for comment,
rather than just taking hands. Director Bouquet, do you have any questions or comments?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Not this time. I do appreciate the presentation though. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Not at that this time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No, Madam Chair. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. Thank you, Madam Chair. I do appreciate the update and the refresh. Looking
forward to seeing where we go from here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Just a couple of quick things. First, General Manager Johnson, I'm really
glad to see you're engaged on this so directly. That's great. And secondly, you mentioned in the memo
and in the presentation that we're restarting it with new dynamics facing the agency.
What are you doing, what actions are you taking to get arms around changes resulting from the pandemic
and in workforce issues, and so forth? I'm talking about commuter patterns and so forth. Can you just give
us a thumbnail, Holly or whoever, about what you're doing to incorporate that?
HOLLY BUCK: I'll go ahead and start. Holly Buck, FHU. As far as work patterns, one of the things that
we're doing, we're working with RTD's travel demand modeling group. We're also working with DRCOG.
And we're doing what we're calling-- we're referring to as the bookends, where we are trying to look at
some scenarios to help us understand what travel may look like in the future.
We know what it looks like if we go back to what it was, right? We have a good sense of that. What if we
don't go back to what it was? What if we go back to say a hybrid, where we go to work two days a week?
What if we go back to work two days a week, but we don't travel on those same 9:00 to 5:00 schedule?
So we'll get a sense from that effort, the span.
And so, while we don't have a crystal ball to say this is exactly what's going to happen, we're going to give
you as much information as we can to try and make good, educated assessment about what the span
might look like for RTD and how we make good decisions moving forward understanding that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, and you're welcoming additional comments via writing. Is that correct, Bill
Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. That's all, Madam Chair. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate it. I just would say that I did notice and
appreciate that in the updated Guiding Principles, the word customer does appear a number of times. I
was surprised to see in the customer experience is previously a little lower on the list. And I would just
remind us all that throughout this pandemic, we have a number of loyal customers who should be
celebrated and continue to benefit well into the future with the system.
So sometimes it's the small end that's maintaining our system. It's looking towards how we sustain this in
the long haul. And I just encourage everybody as we comment to bear in mind that customers are at the
center here. And other than that, I would just say thank you. I look forward to participating in the next
steps. Really appreciate that we're restarting this important process.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may respond to Director Davidson. Thank you very much for your
comments. It's really important to me. I know oftentimes in this space people refer to individuals as riders.
I personally prefer customers, because they're paying for a service, and we should treat them as such.
And so my comments are intentional.
And as I worked with the team, it's very important that we leverage that aspect, because regardless of
what one's paying or what they can afford, we should ensure that we are providing the highest level of
customer service because we want their satisfaction. And that will take this further when we look at them
to promote our system for the betterment of others. So thank you very much for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else Director Davidson? No?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Nothing for me. Thanks, everyone, for the great report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have one-- I guess two comments. The first is a package
page 85. It talks about regarding supporting social equity populations, and I just want to be sure that as
we are moving into this process, that we define equity. Because we still haven't had the opportunity to do
that. And I know, Ms Buck you know very well that that's important to me as well as General Manager
Johnson. So it's probably not a surprising comment.
And the second comment that I have is just an opportunity to involve the CAC. I just believe the CAC and
the other groups that we have that meet pretty regularly, I just think they have such a wealth of
information. And there might be an opportunity for us to tap into that, their expertise and their time and
their talent in a way that might be meaningful for the agency.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis, if I may, the team can attest I had a conversation revolving around
that, because I think it's incumbent upon us to engage our Citizen Advisory Committee and leverage other
customers from their perspectives, as opposed to just-- and I don't mean this in a disrespectful fashion-but I want to hear from individuals that are actually utilizing the system. So we understand, getting back to
the point that I've raised before, what their pain points are.
As opposed to hearing it in a filter type way about I heard that this person had this experience
anecdotally, because it's often filtered by the time it gets to us. So I appreciate that comment, and please
know that's our intent going forward. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Wonderful. Thank you so much, that's all I have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair and Chief Johnson and team. So to echo quite a bit of
what Director Lewis said, and I look forward to having that discussion over equity, and I was pleased to
see that in one of the Guiding Principles. Also glad to see the mobility piece, that I look forward to having
a discussion on, ensuring that RTD fits into that total package of how people are going to get around.
And how they're going to access RTD. By foot, and getting there by bicycle, and scooter, and car, and
other methods. So I look forward to that all being very inclusive, and I'll look forward to hearing from staff
as well. So thank you, and good job everybody on putting together a great presentation. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you all, already a good discussion. And I look forward to the more indepth talks later. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Teeing off of some of what Director Lewis said
and what Director Rosenthal amplified on, I was struck in looking at the packet. That page 84 of the
packet really seemed to me to present a false choice. It pitted mobility and ADA and equity issues on the
one hand against an example that was mobility, financial and partnerships.
And I was troubled when I saw that. But then I saw that on page 86, there was a marrying of all of that,
where mobility, equity, financial partnerships were then also married with work force and sustainability.
And it seems to me, that presentation on page 86 did a better job at providing six filters through which
anything that we propose should pass.

So that was comforting to me, because as I say it seemed in the first instance to separate and to pit
against each other some important issues. May I ask, and maybe Ms. Buck at FHU can tell me whether I
did in fact capture that correctly?
HOLLY BUCK: Holly Buck, FHU. And I'm not sure which-- I think one is the example, is the example. And
one is the-- then 86 was the actual Guiding Principles themselves, is that?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
HOLLY BUCK: OK. Yeah, they definitely were not intended to be pitted against each other. Just
examples of strategies that may come out of the process. So they are intended-- I think you hit it right on
the head, where the Guiding Principles are intended to be a lens for which decisions are evaluated. So I
think that's exactly right, but there was no-- the example was not intended to be.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that amplification.
HOLLY BUCK: Thank you, and I will relook at that to make sure that I don't mislead anyone with that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TREY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Not much to add, just a great refresher. It was needed
because it seems like we started this process Holly and Bill four years ago, and it was not. Just so much
has gone on since phase one, if you will, of Reimagine. So great refresher, and I really appreciate the
fellow Board members comments in regard to the presentation and the overall project. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore-- I mean, excuse me, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I have two questions. They kind of run together. The first one is I'm wondering how we
are now planning to have Reimagine interact with the Accountability Committee. I know that some people
on the Accountability Committee are also part of Reimagine, and so I wonder if you all would speak to
that. And then I'll go into my second question.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I'll take that question, Director Williams. Considering Reimagine is an important
element as relates to our service in and of itself, we will keep people apprised of our meetings that we're
holding, but these are two entities that I would look at being on parallel tracks, no pun intended. And so
we will share information and have informed decisions due to the fact that we leverage Reimagine RTD
when we had to quickly pivot and be flexible and agile as we looked at our service delivery model going
forward.
So recognizing that we want to hear from a varied audience as relates to what might be best, relative to
our service optimization planning, that we would take that in a multi-pronged approach going forward and
get feedback and share information accordingly. And we're more than happy to provide updates of the
Accountability Committee, because this just provides another avenue in which we can disseminate
information about what we're doing, trying to optimize service here within the region.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's great. Thank you for that, I would-- that's great. The other question I had is, it's
been close to a year since we had Reimagine, the Technical Working Group, or the Advisory Council.
And I know that some of the people who were on either one or both of those have left town, changed
jobs. I wonder if we are going to ask those people to continue in their position, or if their replacement in
their position would be invited, or how we're dealing with that. Have we thought about that?
HOLLY BUCK: I'll go ahead and take that. Holly Buck, FHU. So we have-- you're absolutely right, there
has been some turnover certainly. So what we've done is we've gone through both the lists. When we've
flagged someone who has changed jobs, we have looked to Bill Sirois and Brian Welch to help us make
sure that we're getting a full-- if we know somebody is not there, making sure we're getting a replacement.

Reaching out to that organization. And we've had some pretty good success so far, but there are still a
couple of spaces where we're looking to shore that up and make sure there's still conversation going on.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you. That's all, appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The questions, I believe our Chair has joined us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do. Holly, thank you for teeing that up. And thank you Director Williams for
asking that question. Because one of the things that I'm thinking about is four years ago, people talked
about diversity, but they didn't talk about diversity like we are talking about it today. And diversity is so
complex. When you look at the six components that you have on page 86, it shows just how diverse it is
currently.
Here's my question. Is those two seats that are left, could they actually be filled by someone who could be
on that committee, and say this is exactly what's happened to me riding RTD. So that they would be
transit riders, and I would love one of them to be a youth, because I think that their voice is so important
as we move forward in re-imagining RTD, number one. And perhaps the second one should be someone
from the senior community who depends on RTD to get from one place to another.
In terms of really showing diversity and inclusion, I think that would be really successful for us as an
agency to show that we have them at the table. And I think the question really needs to be specific. What
is it about RTD that concerns you? Not what you've heard, not what you've read. Not what you assume.
But what is it your experience been? Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You are welcome. You know I would follow up on Chair Rivera-Malpiede's
questions there and suggestions. And I apologize if some of this is in the planning, I heard some of what
you're doing. But there are a couple of polls that might make sense. One of them is along the lines of
what the Chair was talking about, but sort of generally. And you were talking about looking at the DRCOG
material. And will be doing any rider polling, polling of our customers?
Our former customers or potential customers, Director Davidson and I met with the Superior Town
Council last night and several people said I used to take the Flatiron Flyer every day, but my company is
closed its office. Or I'm only going to be going back to work one day a week. So will we be doing any of
that polling?
HOLLY BUCK: You know what, I don't want to make any promises here, but what we're doing right now is
putting together our updated public engagement plan for the second phase of Reimagine.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's Tuesday. I just-SPEAKER 2: Sorry, I forgot.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams, I think you're unmuted.
HOLLY BUCK: Sorry, Holly Buck, FHU. So we did some polling, we did some surveying during the
system optimization process. And I think there's an opportunity to do, I mean, some really great outreach
as part of this as well. So let me put a plan together, and we'll definitely bring that to you with some more
details. And I think there's some opportunity for that as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And one is more of an internal poll, with the Reimagine Advisory Committee.
It sounds like some people are going off. Some people are continuing. But I think that you know once you
introduce sort of the change of focus I know you'll be talking to them a lot, but just kind of some sense of
what they felt like worked before and didn't work before. And how they would build on what they liked in
the past, I think is also worth considering.
HOLLY BUCK: OK, thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Let's see. Anything else? I guess that's all we have on that for tonight. Thank
you so much, Mr Van Meter and Ms Buck. Does anyone else have any other old business?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair, this is-LYNN GUISSINGER: Bob Broom? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I have a question. Last week, the power grid in Texas went down. If a similar
event were to occur in Colorado, what redundancies system we have built into our systems to deal with
this? In other words, do we have the backup generators to maintain our communication systems and
security systems? Even simple things like, do we have a backup to pump diesel fuel into buses?
So at least you can keep buses moving to go out and retrieve people who might get stuck somewhere
when the grid went down? Well I doubt if it's going to be weather related. It could very well be some
computer hacks get in and shut down the grid in Colorado. I would like to get a report back from staff. It's
kind of to remind the Board where we stand in this regard. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms Johnson do-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I heard Director Broom, basically he wants to know about our COOP, our
Continuity of Operations Plan. That's what I would qualify it as such, and so we can work to bring
something back as it relates to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think you're breaking up?
DEBRA JOHNSON: You can't-- am I being heard?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can hear you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right. Thank you very much. I was stating that we will bring back what our plans
are relative to a Continuity of Operations Plan going forward. And then basically talk about the elements
that Director Broom put forward, how will we continue on.
One thing for certain in my experience in the transit space quite naturally, I'm sure we've leveraged here
in Colorado as well, various partnerships we have in the midst of a catastrophic event of Emergency
Management relations and things of the like. So we will work in order to bring something back to the
Board to address that inquiry that has been posed. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great Thank you so much. Anyone else, other old business, or we'll move to new
business. Does anyone have new business? Any new business to discuss? I see Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have two things that I'd like to discuss. The first is just a request of the staff. I know
we changed our-- we moved to live streaming, which I'm really excited about, and we moved to Zoom.
But there isn't on the agenda specific directions and how you might be able to access public comment.
And so my ask is that we could be one more explicit in how we let the public know that we have changes,
because we I think know this stuff pretty well. We're here every Tuesday.
Sometimes the public doesn't know that. So that's the first one. I know I spoke with Barbara earlier this
morning, and she informed me that there was some communication that went out, some today and some
previously, to let folks know that we would be changing. And I would encourage us to put maybe some of
that communication on our social media accounts as well, just to reach a broader audience. As well as
the email list servers that we have, that'd be a great opportunity for us to get the word out.
And it's more of a focus on the specific directions on how to actually access the meeting, because folks
don't always know. So that's my first one. You all can respond. You can also deal with it internally. I don't
have a preference in how you do that. And then I had a second comment, if that's all right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there a response? Those are good--

DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis, if I may, and I'm sorry Madam Chair if I may respond.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That'd be great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: We will ensure that we leverage all conduits so people do have an understanding. As
I said earlier, we're conducting the people's business and we want to ensure that there is meaningful
engagement, so working with our communications team as well as the Board Office, we will leverage all
possible conduits going forward. So thank you very much for bringing that up in this forum.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much General Manager. I really appreciate it. And then the second is, I
wanted to share a story that I received from a constituent about one of our operators, which I was really
pleased to hear. You all know that I was a teen mom, I used to take the bus pretty regularly from
Montbello actually into Five Points to drop them off to daycare, and then off to college.
And one of the things that I remember pretty fondly is my bus operator, because you would always wait
for me. And he would be really, really kind. I had a three-year-old, and three-year-olds aren't always the
best riders-- or customers, General Manager Johnson. And so this particular story was about a woman in
Boulder actually, Director Guissinger, which might be interesting to you, who utilizes our services pretty
regularly to go snowshoeing.
And she hadn't showed up for her ride and actually had gotten lost. She was eventually rescued, but one
of the operators put in the comments on social media that, who is the operator for this woman. Hey-- I'll
leave her name out-- RTD driver here. Just wanted to say that all of us Boulder operators that get the
pleasure of driving Jan were on edge throughout the day thinking about her. Glad to hear she was found
today. It was truly a relief to all of us. Hope she has a speedy recovery and we get to see her again soon.
And I just, that was just such a beautiful story for me, because I use public transportation. But also that is
like the epitome of the folks who operate our services and who genuinely care about the people beyond
just dropping them off from stop to stop, but how they are doing in their well-being. And so I just say
kudos to our operators. This is a reminder of the kindness and compassion and the empathy. And the
patience quite honestly, that they exhibit on a day to day basis.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a great story. Thank you. I was glad to see that she was rescued too, and I
hadn't heard that story. So a good story. Any other business, anyone else? Did I see someone's hand go
up before? Oh yeah. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. And again thank you everyone for, especially Director
Lewis, bringing this up about transparency and our Board meetings being more accessible. I just want to
add on if possible if we could share out our YouTube link whenever possible, because I know some
people, some folks don't have access to Zoom. And it might be a lot easier for people just to watch and
listen on. So that would just be my one comment.
And I would also want to say a thank you for those who have made it more accessible by providing that
YouTube link. It has been great. I've heard from constituents how much easier it is to provide that. And
also going off a Director Lewis, a shout out to our operators because they are just-- they are doing an
amazing job right now during very uncertain times. That's all I'd have to say. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Anything else? All right, seeing no additional business. Do we
have a motion to adjourn?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second. Anybody?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Rivera-Malpiede's movement. Director Williams is the second. Any
objection?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just real quick. I thought I saw Director Dishell's hand up. I just want to make sure
he had that chance to say something.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you have something, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I just want to say really quickly, I know we
skipped the Pledge of Allegiance today, which is something I'm completely fine with. But if anyone else is
interested in evaluating what it means to do a land acknowledgment for the native lands our district
occupies, please feel free to reach out. It's something I'm certainly interested in, whether that's in lieu of
or in addition to the pledge.
And if all of what I just said sounds like gibberish, also please feel free to reach out, I'd be happy to
discuss. If anyone has any connections to individuals in the native community who you think we should-or indigenous population that you think we should include in this conversation, please let me know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. All right, we had a motion to adjourn that past. The meeting is
adjourned at 6:48 PM. Let's take a short break, come back. And shall we do seven minutes, come back at
6:55? Does that work? You really stay in this Zoom, OK? 6:55, thanks so much.

