Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 7, 2009
Page 1 of 5
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

April 7, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held on Tuesday, April 7, 2009 at 5:30 p.m.

Special Board Meeting

I.

Call to Order/Roll Call

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:40 p.m. A roll call was taken with 14 present at
roll call. Director McMullen was physically absent but called in via teleconference.
II.

Public Comments

Chair Kemp provided clarification on the purpose of the Special Board meeting to vote on the
recommended 2009 FasTracks Financial Plan adoption which was presented to the RTD Board
last night but not to vote on going to the ballot. Cal Marsella added that this action item
included the assumption that RTD would continue to pursue the federal funding process to
benefit from up to $1 billion to help fund the East Corridor and Gold Line projects; and RTD
would move ahead with the plan to seek an additional sales and use tax increase of .4% to
help build out the whole FasTracks program by 2017 as intended. However, no vote would be
taken tonight for going to the ballot.
Rachael Zenzinger, Arvada, spoke on behalf of the private citizens who provide their support of
RTD continuing to pursue the federal funding process to benefit up to $1 billion to help fund
the East Corridor and Gold Line projects.
Lorraine Anderson, member of Arvada City Council, provided their support for the P3 financial
plan that included continuing to pursue the federal funding process to benefit from up to $1
billion to help fund the East Corridor and Gold Line projects; and RTD would move ahead with
the plan to seek an additional sales and use tax increase of .4% to help build out the whole
FasTracks program by 2017. She also shared that Arvada has supported RTD before
FasTracks and will continue post FasTracks.
Honorable Mayor Frie, Arvada, thanked the efforts of RTD, especially Chair Kemp and Director
Busck and staff who labored with the Metro Mayors Task Force for over five months while
they analyzed the right way to handle this financial shortfall. 38 members of the MMC
endorsed the FasTracks Financial Plan as the right way to go.
Terri Binder, former RTD Board member who had relocated to Grand Junction but is now in the
process of renovating a house in Arvada, spoke to offer support to the wonderful job that Cal
Marsella is doing. She expressed complete confidence in his leadership and stated the
importance of sticking together as a region. No one had a crystal ball to foretell the rise in
commodities, the drop in sales tax and all these other economic factors affecting FasTracks

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 7, 2009
Page 2 of 5
now.
Shelly Cook, Arvada, offered the additional comment that in a recent poll, approximately 82%
of the citizens in Arvada support the FasTracks financial plan to move ahead with the federal
funding process for $1 billion to help the Gold Line and East Corridor projects.
Gene Putnam, Transportation Manager from City of Thornton, supports the decision but
recommended the Board not wait until August to make a decision on going to the ballot.
Information needs to be out in the community now so the work should begin now.
Preston Gibson, Jefferson Economic Council, provided a resolution from the Council providing
their support of the FasTracks financial plan. He stated the council supports the FasTracks
program and wants to see it through.
Honorable Mayor Roger Lange, Longmont, introduced members of the Longmont City Council
who had cancelled a meeting to attend this special Board meeting. Council members in
attendance included: Karen Benker, Brian Hansen, Sean McCoy, Sarah Levision and former
Board member Mary Blue. He stated the importance of having this full buildout (including
double tracks to Longmont) and thanked Chair Kemp, Director Busck and Cal Marsella for their
work with the MMC.
He re-emphasized three areas of concern from the MMC
recommendation: (1) Equitable solution for all the corridors (2) 2017 Buildout and (3) going to
the ballot for a .4% sales tax. He stated the preference is to go sooner than later.
Honorable Mayor Murphy, Lakewood and Chair of the MMC, again reiterated their support for
the FasTracks Financial Plan and the decision to go to the ballot this year.
III.

Recommended Action
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt a financial plan scenario for the 2009 FasTracks Annual Program
Evaluation that assumes the passage of a 0.4% sales and use tax increase commencing
in January 2011 and successful receipt of an additional Full Funding Grant Agreement
(FFGA) for the East and Gold Line Public Private Partnership Corridors (EAGLE P3
Project) in the amount of approximately $1 billion. This scenario results in the
completion of the full FasTracks program by 2017, and provides the basis for RTD to
proceed forward with: 1) DRCOG review of the FasTracks program and financial plan
as required by Senate Bill 90-208; and 2) with the New Starts application to the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for an FFGA for the EAGLE P3 Project, reaffirming
the RTD Board of Director’s commitment to pursue an FFGA for the Project. This action
does not represent a decision or commitment at this time by the Board of Directors to
place a sale and use tax increase on the ballot, but it preserves the capability for the
RTD Board of Directors to continue consideration of all potential scenarios for
completion of the FasTracks program. Should the Board choose not to seek a tax
increase, or if a tax increase initiative is not approved by the voters, a revised, updated
financial plan would be adopted by the Board at that time, recognizing the new
opportunities and constraints that would exist.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
adoption of the 2009 FasTracks Financial Plan
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director O’Boyle wanted clarity of if by approving
this action that assumes the .4% sales and use
tax commences in January 2011, does this

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 7, 2009
Page 3 of 5
preclude starting sooner. Bill Van Meter explained
that this was the most conservative assumption
but this language would not preclude the Board
from implementing this sooner if approved. The
language that the Board goes to the ballot with
will define the date.
Director Busck thanked the leadership of Mayor
Murphy and the MMC Task Force for their
support to the FasTracks Financial Plan and the
countless hours they devoted to this effort.
Director Pulliam thanked the Arvada community
and a number of organizations that had
presented or provided resolutions supporting this
plan.

VOTE
ON THE
MOTION:

Director McMullen who was participating by
phone and per bylaws, could not cast a formal
vote, nevertheless provided his 100% support
for this FasTracks Financial Plan.
The vote passed 14 in favor and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared
Unanimously.

the

Motion

PASSED

IV.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 6:02 p.m. to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
meeting.

Prepared by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 7, 2009
Page 4 of 5
ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, April 7, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William “Bill” McMullen (via teleconference)
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Jane Donovan
Terry Howerter
Cal Marsella
Scott Reed
Cal Shankster
Jim Starling
Pauletta Tonilas
Rick Clarke
Carol Duecker
Jim Kelley

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

Brian Middleton
Teresa Sedmak
Dave Shelley
Greg Straight
Lisa Trujillo
Dennis Cole
Sherry Ellebracht
Marla Lien
Jerry Nery
Daria Serna
John Shonsey

OTHERS PRESENT
Kevin Flynn
Jeff Leib – The Denver Post
John West – DTCG
Bob Kochevar
Ravi Swamy
Steve Gee
Bob Wilson
Lorraine Anderson – City of Arvada
Craig Kocian – City of Arvada
Rachel Carter – Longmont Times-Call
Bob Murphy – Mayor of Lakewood
Ed Romero – Romero & Wilson

Stan Szabelak
Bill Van Meter
Kevin Diviness
Kenn Hardin
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Dean Shaklee
Julie Skeen
Liz Telford
Phil Washington

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, April 7, 2009
Page 5 of 5

Shelley Cook
Bob Frie – Mayor of Arvada
Terri Binder
Steve Roescher – Siemens
Steve Roberts – Systra
Gene Putman – City of Thornton
Brian Pinkerton – City and County of Denver
Preston Gibson – Jefferson Economic Council
Steve Cook – DRCOG
Roger Lange – Mayor of Longmont
Mary Blue – City of Longmont
Sarah Levison – City of Longmont
Gordon Pedron – City of Longmont
Linda Morton – Belay Communications
Karen Benker – City of Longmont
Phil Greenwald – City of Longmont
Elliot Brown – RBC
Peter Koerm – Siemens
Rachel Zenzinger
Eliot Jamison – MTP
Joe Racosky – URS
Sean P McCoy – City of Longmont
Brain Hansen – City of Longmont
Amy Ford
Mac Callison – City of Aurora
Malcolm MacIntyre – MTP
H. Seekings – HSBC
T. Howell – Kiewit
Andrea Menghol – CDR
Matt McDole – L.S. Gallegos
Miles Wadley – MTP
Lloyd Lovell – DTCG
Ivan Maiden

