Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
August 18, 2015 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Kim D. Baker – LRT Train Operator – 22 years
Gary Lynn Hill – Dispatcher – 18 years
Special Recognition
GFOA 2015 Distinguished Budget Presentation Award

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Lubow
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

GM Executive Search Committee Update

VIII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

IX.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 28, 2015

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of the 2015 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the 2015 Annual Program Evaluation (APE). The APE provides a
comprehensive financial blueprint for all FasTracks capital projects completed, underway
or planned through the year 2019.
B.

RTD On-vehicle Advertising Policy Update

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt the attached advertising policy.

XIII.

Recommended Action
C.
Updated Authorization of Fiscal Authority to the General Manager for the North
Metro Rail Line Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors (“Board”) increase the authority granted to the General Manager or designee to
enter into all contracts, real property transactions and intergovernmental agreements for
the North Metro Rail Line Project by $56 million to a total authorization of $689.8 million.
This authority shall include the ability to negotiate and execute all contracts; work orders;
change orders and contract modifications; agreements for the acquisition and conveyance
of property interests; and intergovernmental agreements that are necessary or advisable to
complete the North Metro Rail Line within the scope of the North Metro Rail Line Project
budget. This action is consistent with previous board actions and the 2015 Annual
Program Evaluation (APE).
D.

Approval of 2016 - 2021 Strategic Budget Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2016-2021 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
E.

Award Contract for the Supply of 36 Mall Shuttle Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to execute a contract
with BYD Motors, Inc. for the supply of 36 – 45’ mall shuttle buses and associated spare
components in an amount not to exceed $27,100,000.

F.

Sponsorship Naming Rights Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into an agreement with the University of
Colorado (CU) for the sponsorship naming rights on the A Line and an exterior advertising
position on the Flatiron Flyer line for a five-year period, with a mutually agreed upon right
to extend this agreement for an additional five years. Under the terms of the agreement,
RTD would receive $905,000.00 in the first agreement year with a 5% escalation factor
for each contract year through year five, with the right to mutually extend this agreement
for an additional five years, also with a 5% escalation factor each year. Over the initial
five-year period of the contract, RTD would receive a gross amount of $5,000,696.00. It
is further recommended that the revenue from this contract be placed in the Board Reserve
Account, which gives the Board flexibility in determining its specific usage.
G.

Approval of Interim General Manager's 2016 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the Interim General Manager’s goals for
2016 as defined in the attached General Manager’s Performance Evaluation Form.

XIV. Executive Session
XV.

Old Business

XVI. New Business
XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

