1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 5, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Bruce Daly

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 7:56 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson

Chair of the Board

Present

7:55 PM

Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Committee Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present
Present

7:49 PM
7:50 PM
7:50 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:51 PM
7:49 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

7:54 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

7:50 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:50 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:54 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:53 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:50 PM

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Lisa Dorrance, Sherry
Ellebracht, John Elias, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug
McLeod, Barbara McManus, Bob Michelson, Andy Mutz, Paula
Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Angela Shelbourn, John Shonsey,
Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Gerry Suazo, Brenda Tierney,
Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Michele Brier, Carl Castillo, Z.J. Czupor, John
Desmond, Mike Dino, Jane Donovan, John Fernandez, Joni Goheen,
Boyd Gordon, Sherman Hamilton, Anne Hayes, Dale Honor, Julie
McKenna, Jerry Mugg, Maxine Pryor, Gene Putman, Liz Rao, Jacob
Riger, Laura Rinker, Roger Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Marta Sipeki,
Julie Skeen, Karen Stuart, Chris Taylor, Joe Triplett, Roberto Venegas

B. Recommended Actions

• Senate Bill 13-027 Board Action
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board
of Directors support Senate Bill 13-027, concerning the provision of parking
facilities by third parties at or near Regional Transportation District mass
transit stations, and allow RTD’s lobbyists and staff to work with legislators
to make any amendments consistent with the Board of Directors’ intent. In
addition, RTD would enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with
the City of Boulder (Boulder) that would require Boulder’s concurrence
before any existing RTD owned park-n-Ride could be sold or leased for
private operation under the amended legislation.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the February 19th, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Daly asked the group to introduce themselves, Sherry
Ellebracht, RTD’s Government Relations Officer, Jenifer
Brandeberry, and Julie McKenna both contract lobbyists at the
State House; Roger Sherman from CRL Associates, local
government liaison and Mike Dino with Patton Boggs in
Federal Items.

Jenifer Brandeberry provided the background for the Senate
bill; they have been working with several partners. The
request came from the City of Aurora to allow some flexibility
for RTD to enter in to agreements with third party to enhance
parking facilities around the Metro area. They have also had
extensive meeting with the City of Boulder about working
together on this legislation and the City has asked for an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). There are stakeholders in
the Capitol that are interested in passing this legislation.
Senator Todd from Aurora and Representative Kevin Priola
from Adams County are carrying it at the legislature. There
are also several groups including business and environmental
groups from the area such as Colorado Municipal League and
Colorado County that are in support.
Director Sisk stated that this is very important for the City of
Boulder and needs to have attention in terms of RTD working
with the different cities. Boulder has acquired transportation
infrastructure and he would be very concerned if RTD parking
stations are sold without the city being involved as they have
committed a good amount of money in enhancements. Jenifer
stated that they have been in conversations with Boulder to
identify what RTD owns and what the City does. They all
have agreed that flexibility is important and that is why they
went down the IGA piece; other cities expressed interest on it,
but after learning more about it have decided not to pursue
that. They feel that this legislation is a permissive and allows
the cities who want to take advantage of it to use it, but they
are not required to do so. In order to give Boulder what they
have asked, they are in ongoing conversations about the IGA
and how it would work. Director Sisk asks the Board to deal
with this in a very careful manner and not be hastening as
these agreements take time.
Director James generally likes the idea because RTD is not in
the development business; RTD would like to be catalyst in
good transportation. He likes the idea of maximum flexibility.
He has noticed that with regard to parking, the ability for the
private sector has been limited by the regional and financial
constraints. He likes the idea of getting the private sector
involved.
Director Lasater asked if this is only in TOD stops and no other
Park-n-Ride areas. He would like to understand what the bill
entails. If this is for TOD, how will this affect our riders? (i.e.,

would they have to start paying in areas where they didn’t
before?) Staff stated that RTD has limitation in terms of what
it can do to charge for parking. The definition of RTD owned
parking facilities is very broad and even private developers
who want to build facilities adjacent to RTD park-n-ride cannot
do it if they enter in an agreement with RTD. This legislation
will allow that anybody who wants to build parking and want
RTD to agree to not build a competing parking or using their
parking, they would have to come to this Board to come to
terms to an appropriate fare structure. Anybody that gets
permission from local jurisdiction on land use can build and
charge for the parking. If they want to have a target market
for RTD that we will not build a free facility next door, they
would have to come and negotiate with RTD.
Chair Anderson asked for the feedback from the City of Aurora
representatives.
Roberto Vanegas from the City of Aurora stated that they
understand that mutual cooperation is important. When they
look at the parking necessities as they continue building
stations, they realize there is a shortage and with the reality of
the budget constraints they will need other tools to build the
parking stations. This bill will allow what they are looking for
which is financial mechanisms so they can build additional
parking.
John Fernandez, City of Aurora Planning, stated that in 2009
the City did a corridor wide parking study and they found that
they have a 100% deficit. This legislation is just one more
tool to help them with cash contributors as well as working
with developers to increase the supply and at the same time
protect land for development. For example in one station
there are 600 spaces allocated by FasTracks; however they
see a need for 1200 on opening day. They have discussed
this with their Council and they have accepted the notion of
free base parking. They see the need for revenue to make it
all work. Based on the draft IGA with RTD they have until the
end of the year to come up with the packet and they would
have to address management, operations and maintenance as
well as fee structures.
Director Anderson commented that she thinks this is a
permissive bill and communities don’t have to do it; but they
can do it, especially if they are concerned about parking and

the financial capacity to build it. This will allow a third party
to come in and build parking and serve the RTD station and
other projects. Marla Lien clarified that the local jurisdiction
has the land use authority. RTD does not zone. If a
jurisdiction wants or don’t want a pay-for-parking facility as a
permitted use, it is up to the jurisdiction to control their
zoning.
Director Deadwyler stated she does not understand the bill.
She understands why the cities might want to build additional
parking but RTD would not see any money. Director
Deadwyler is concerned this would hurt RTD users. She
worries they would stop using our services because now they
have to pay for parking. She would like the opportunity to
fully understand this bill before she can support it.
Director James stated that he likes this idea because it would
allow the private sector and other cities to develop parking
structure alongside an RTD’s Park-n-Ride and releases the
limitations that currently exist on what they can charge per
parking. RTD is not in the development business, but would
rather like to be a catalyst for good transportation oriented
development and this would advance that, while allowing
maximum flexibility.
Director Anderson asked if RTD could have a part of the
parking structure that would be free. Marla Lien stated that it
is possible; it would have to be negotiated. Director Anderson
based on the information provided in the packet, she will
support the legislation because it is permissive and provides
another mechanism to build parking.
Director Deadwyler asked if RTD would have a say on how the
private parking rates structure is established. She stated that
we are trying to get cars out of the street, but she is afraid
that high parking rates could force RTD users to drive. Marla
Lien stated that at this point anybody can build and charge for
parking in areas where RTD does not provide parking. In the
future if a party wants to provide parking they would have to
come to the Board for approval; it would not happen
automatically. The bill directly addresses RTD and its stations.
General Manager Washington stated that in each case that the
situation occurs they would have to come back to the Board.

Director Walker stated that this is market driven and the
stations that have the need could benefit from it. It could also
solve issues in high traffic areas like the Colorado station,
where drivers are parking in the neighborhoods. He will
support, because it is a good idea and market driven.
Director Rivera-Malpiede asked what would happen in 15
years if the developer decides to stop the service. Marla Lien
stated that RTD would go back to what is in place today and
RTD would have to decide if it wants to acquire property and
build the facility.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Daly declared the motion PASSED to the Recommended
Action.

C. Updates

• Government Relations Updates (State, Local, Federal)
Roger Sherman from CRL Associates stated that they have been
participating on the ongoing discussions on transportation funding; they
attended various meetings with both government and private groups. They
have participated in meeting with various groups in the metro area. Metro
Mayor Conference, Metro Area County Commissioners, private sector
coalition called The Colorado Transportation Coalition, Impact 64 which
consist of the metro mayors caucus and other 57 counties and Action 22
among others. They are all talking about what can be done about
transportation funding and it has a transit component. This is the first time
that CDOT is talking about a statewide initiative that has a transit
component in it. There is a sub-committee in the metro area that includes
county commissioners and mayors that are discussing if there is sufficient
support in the metro area for a statewide sales tax that would have a split
for roads and transit. The Metro Mayors Caucus will meet tomorrow and
this is a major item in the agenda to see if there is enough support in the
Front Range to roll that out into discussion with the other counties. It is
early but very critical on options for funding for RTD. He will keep the Board
informed. They will also measure if there is enough support from the private
sector for the campaign to increase the sales tax.

Another issue is the Northwest Area Mobility Study. The feedback from
both North and South areas is much more positive which is good as the
study is critical to see what the officials in that area are thinking and what
the potential outcome can be.
Director Deadwyler commented that she had the opportunity to sit down
with Roger and he helped her understand what the CRL role is.
Director Daly introduced Mike Dino from Patton Boggs providing lobbying
services at the federal level.
Mike Dino stated that there are several dates coming up that are important.
March 1 is the potential for more spending cuts to go into place. At the end
of last year, Congress postponed sequestration for two months and that
goes into effect March 1. Today the President asked for another short term
situation to avoid major budget cuts and find some more revenue streams.
This affects the possibility of new starts funding for RTD, particularly on the
Eagle P3 corridor. On March 27, the current budget for fiscal year 2013
expires, and that also has ramification for funding for Eagle P3. Congress
does need to make a formal action to formally approve the rest of the 2013
budget or they could shut down. On April 15 both chambers, Senate and
House, need to approve fiscal year 14 budget resolutions. If they fail to do
it, they would forgo their salary as part of the debt ceiling agreement. Each
chamber can agree on its own budget resolution and still keep their salary.
On May 19, the extension of debt ceiling needs to be approved. This is a
big challenge as the Republicans feel they dealt with sequestration at the
end of the year and the Democrats are still looking for revenue increases.
The House is on schedule to be in session for only 10 days this month.
They will continue to watch the new start funding which right now is off
schedule. They are working with staff on new starts rules that FTA is
implementing. RTD staff is running those scenarios and if those rules do
affect future funding for RTD, they will look to Congress to see if they can
be amended. Secretary Ray LaHood of US DOT is leaving his position.
Potential candidates include LA Major Antonio Villaraigosa, former
Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell and the National Transportation Safety
Board Chairman Debbie Hersman and there might be others.
For the legislative meeting in Washington he stated that usually they have a
dinner on Monday night to prepare the Board members for their visits and
they try to split into teams for the congressional delegations visits as well as
visits with other pertinent officials such as FTA. They try to keep a
consistent message. They will be looking at new starts funding and
message related to Eagle P3 and future opportunities. They will provide an
update on FasTracks and the success story on West Corridor and progress in

other corridors. They will be asking for $160 million for Eagle P3 for fiscal
year 2014 and of course thank them for the funding received up to date.
Director Daly mentioned that on the bill they passed earlier, RTD is joined by
the Colorado Municipal League and the Denver South Economic Partnership
who also supports the bill. He also received a call from the Transit Alliance
who also supports the bill. He asked the representatives from
Brandeberry~McKenna about the bill on highway uses trust fund that was in
the transportation committee. Jennifer responded that it came out the
Senate Transportation Committee 5-0.
Jennifer Brandeberry mentioned that General Manager Phil Washington,
Chair Anderson, Director Daly as well as RTD staff did a presentation to the
House and Senate Transportation Committees this week and it was very
well received. It is not by accident that several members from the north
corridor specifically asked to be in those committees. She thanked the new
Board members who have been meeting regularly with elected state officials
and the feedback they have received is very positive. They are excited
about the West Line and looking forward to what is happening in the North
area.

D. Other Matters
Director Tobiassen thanked them for the briefings and mentioned that during the
APTA conference they will have the opportunity to meet Richard Devylder, Senior
Advisor at the US Department of Transportation on Disability issues. They are
trying to set up the time and he wanted to invite everybody to meet him.
He also requested that when there is a vote during the meeting, he would like for
the chairs to call out who’s the minority votes are so that the members who cannot
read the screen can be informed as how the vote went.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 5, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 8:49 p.m.

These minutes were prepared by Ana Ochoa-Salcido, Temporary.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

