1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
John Tayer, District O
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 5, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Bruce Daly

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Senate Bill 13-027 Board Action
C. Updates

• Government Relations Updates (State, Local, Federal)
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - March 5, 2013
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:

 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 30, 2013

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 30, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 5, 2013

Subject:

Senate Bill 13-027 Board Action

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors support Senate
Bill 13-027, concerning the provision of parking facilities by third parties at or near Regional
Transportation District mass transit stations, and allow RTD’s lobbyists and staff to work with legislators
to make any amendments consistent with the Board of Directors’ intent. In addition, RTD would enter
into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Boulder (Boulder) that would require
Boulder’s concurrence before any existing RTD owned park-n-Ride could be sold or leased for private
operation under the amended legislation.
BACKGROUND
RTD currently has a limited set of circumstances where it can charge patrons for parking—parking over
24 hours, parking for someone who resides outside the RTD taxing district, and reserved parking spaces
(up to 15 percent of the total number of available spaces). RTD parking facilities are broadly defined by
statute to include facilities owned, leased, or used by RTD. Some municipalities and private developers
have requested RTD’s cooperation in providing opportunities for construction of public pay parking
structures at or near mass transit stations. This could include all RTD patrons, not just those parking for
more than 24 hours or out of district riders.
DISCUSSION
RTD’s restrictions on charging for parking are adding to the challenges of implementing Transit Oriented
Development (TOD) and more specifically of developing parking structures. The language of Senate Bill
13-027 changes the current legislation to allow third parties (local jurisdictions or developers) to be able
to charge for parking for purposes of providing a revenue source for funding parking structures. RTD
would not receive the revenue from the parking fees.
There are several benefits of this bill. Local jurisdictions could facilitate better land use if third parties
construct a structure, rather than RTD building a surface parking lot. Transit patrons and other members
of the public could have more available parking spaces with this private or city involvement as uses
would not have to be clearly segregated. Finally, this bill will allow RTD to manage its resources more
efficiently if we are not expending funds for surface or structured parking.
At the present time, the current situations where the results of passage of this bill may be applicable
include the Boulder Transit Village, Olde Town Arvada TOD Pilot Project (Gold Line), the Westminster
Station (Northwest electrified segment), and the Iliff Station (I-225).
Boulder has requested that RTD enter into an IGA committing that RTD would not allow conversion of
an existing facility in the City to private operation and charges without Boulder’s concurrence. Boulder
would have a 30-day review for any proposals. RTD has two facilities that would be affected by the
proposed IGA, the Table Mesa park-n-Ride and the Tantra Drive park-n-Ride.
FINANCIAL IMPACT

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

RTD could realize savings from not needing to construct a parking lot or structure. The third parties
will be constructing the parking structures and collecting the revenues generated to offset the cost of
construction.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that
the Board of Directors support Senate Bill 13-027, concerning the provision of parking facilities by
third parties at or near Regional Transportation District mass transit stations, and allow RTD’s
lobbyists and staff to work with legislators to make any amendments consistent with Board of
Directors’ intent. In addition, RTD would enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the
City of Boulder (Boulder) that would require Boulder’s concurrence before any existing RTD owned
park-n-Ride could be sold or leased for private operation under the amended legislation.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. This action is not recommended because local jurisdictions
desire the ability to make good land use decisions for their communities and facilitate transit oriented
development, and this bill allows RTD the ability to manage its resources more efficiently.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 30, 2013

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 30, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 5, 2013

Subject:

Government Relations Updates (State, Local,
Federal)





State Legislative Update – Brandeberry~McKenna
Local Government Update – CRL Associates
Federal Update – Patton Boggs – Mike Dino

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

