Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 13, 2007 12:00
p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 14, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 13
2007 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Chair Chris Martinez; Director Lee Kemp, Treasurer;
Director Brohl, Secretary; Director Quinlan, Second
Vice-Chair, Directors Pulliam, McMullen, and Busck
Director Kinton (via telephone)
Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Paula Perdue, Lisa Trujillo
Jeff Lieb, Kevin Flynn, L.W. Morrow
Chair Chris Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:05 p.m.

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella reviewed the following items listed under Unanimous
Consent. With the exception of the two new items added, Contracting
Fare Inspection and Arapahoe Station Excess Parking Plan, all of these
have passed through the Committees unanimously.
 Unanimous Consent
Light Rail Accident Performance Indicator
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer
Services/Marketing Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the change to the performance indicator measure for
Light Rail Accidents from <2 per month to <3 per month due to
changes in the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) definition of a
reportable accident, as presented to the complete Board at the
February Study Session on February 6, 2007.
Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems
Consultant for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant
Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
approve the Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems
Engineering Consultant (FRSC), a Joint Venture of LTK
Engineering Services and Parsons Transportation Group, in the
amount of $15,341,000 bringing the total contract value to

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 13, 2007 12:00
p.m. Page 2 of 6
$22,010,119. Funds for the award are contained in the 2007
FasTracks Budget and 2008 FasTracks Program.
Approval of FasTracks Stakeholder Participation Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors approves the FasTracks
Stakeholder Participation Policy to serve as a guide line for
stakeholder input and involvement throughout the implementation
of the FasTracks program.
Implementation of Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real
property Acquisition Policies Act of 1971
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee the authority and responsibility to implement and
administer the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance
and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1971 for federal or
federally-assisted funded projects including the promulgation and
administration of such rules, regulations and guidelines as may be
deemed necessary to carry out such programs and policies.
Vacation of Easement for Bus Shelter at grape and Colfax Avenue
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to vacate an
easement by and between McDonalds Corporation and the
Regional Transportation District covering 198 square feet (.00454
acres) located on the southeast corner of Glencoe and Colfax
Avenue (an existing RTD shelter location) so that property at this
location may be redeveloped. A new shelter will be purchased
and installed by the developer, along with street improvements,
and RTD will receive $1,000 for the vacation of the easement.
DUS Master Plan and EIS/PE Contract Amendment and project
Budget Increase Request
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
execute a Contract Amendment with the Union Station Alliance –
Joint Venture (USA) for the additional work related to Denver
Union Station in the amount of $8,700,000. The total current
contract amount, including previous amendments, is $9,696,278.
This amendment will increase the contract value to $18,396,278.
This amendment is required to pay for additional work necessary
to complete the FEIS, amend the DUS Master Plan and complete
the 15% preliminary engineering (PE) by the Master Developer.
Funding for this amendment is available in the FasTracks budget
for Denver Union Station.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 13, 2007 12:00
p.m. Page 3 of 6
Transfer of Funds for 2007 Budget for Group 19 Fixed Route
Contract
It is recommended by the Contracted Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to transfer funds totaling up to $1,416,000 to the purchased
service line item of the “Group 19” fixed route service contract in
order to adequately reflect the 2007 cost of service for the
“Group 19” fixed route contract. The sources of funds for the
budget transfer include: up to $966,000 from fuel line items in
“Group 14”, “Group 15”, “Group 16”, “Group 17”, “Group 18”,
and “Group 19” fixed route budgets, up to $350,000 from the
RTD diesel fuel line item and up to $100,000 from the access-aCab contracts line item.
IT Consultant-Ciber
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to
initiate the first year option in the amount of $525,000 to extend
the contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services
(15DK008). This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to
Ciber through the competitive bid process. The contract allowed
for an initial year plus two one year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the contract
was not to exceed $525,000. The second year addition of
$525,000 brings the contract amount up to an amount that
requires Board approval. The first year option is to begin on
March 1, 2007 and remain in effect for one year until February
29, 2008.
IT Data Center Cooling Upgrade project-2007-Construction Award
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a
contract to the lowest responsive, responsible bidder, TC2, in the
amount of $590,408 for the IT Data Center Cooling Upgrade
project or alternatively to the next lowest responsive and
responsible bidder. The total cost of this project is $626,040
including contingencies. Funding for this project is contained in
the 2007 RTD budget.
IT Consultant-LM Telecommunications
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to
initiate the second year option in the amount of $250,000 to
extend the contract for IT Technical and Management Support
Services (15DK009). This contract was originally awarded in
2005 to LM Telecommunications through the competitive bid

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 13, 2007 12:00
p.m. Page 4 of 6
process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus two one
year options to renew based on positive performance by the
vendor. Year one of the contract was not to exceed $250,000.
The second year addition of $250,000 brings the contract amount
up to an amount that requires Board approval. The first year
option is to begin on March 1, 2007 and remain in effect for one
year until February 28, 2008.
IT Consultant-UniVerse/Legacy Programmer(s)
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to
initiate the second year option in the amount of $249,000 to
extend the current contract for Non-personal Services for an IT
Consultant-UniVerse/Legacy Programmer (16DK001). This
contract was originally awarded in 2005 to 5280 Solutions, LLC
(a WSCA company) through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial year plus two one year options to
renew based on positive performance by the vendor. Year one of
the contract was not to exceed $249,000. The second year
addition of $249,000 brings the contract amount up to an amount
that requires Board approval. The second year option is to begin
on March 1, 2007 and remain in effect for one year until February
28, 2008.
Resolution NO_, Series of 2007 related to the issuance of RTD
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __
(the “Bond Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional
Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds),
Series 2007A in a par amount not to exceed $80,000,000.
Contracting Fare Inspection
It is recommended by the Operations & Executive Committees
that the Board of Directors authorize the transfer of the
responsibility for fare inspections services from represented
headcount positions to contracted security positions and the
transfer of $560,000 from the Light Rail Fare Enforcement project
to the following job classes; Electro-mechanic, Signal Traction
Power Maintainer, Track Maintainer, General Repair Mechanic,
Technical Services, Unit Shop Technician, Support Vehicle
Technician, Revenue Technician, and Electronic Technician.
Arapahoe Station Excess Parking Plan
Cal Marsella shared that he had just struck a deal on the Madden
Garage to receive payment of $1.67M which was RTD’s initial

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 13, 2007 12:00
p.m. Page 5 of 6
investment, plus interest, and to retain 470 spaces inside the
parking structure. The actual terms of this agreement are being
written up by the legal department and hopefully will be available
by this Thursday’s Contracted Services meeting.
Motion:

Director Quinlan made the motion
to approve the Arapahoe Station
Excess Parking Plan

Second:

Director
motion

Vote on the
Motion:


Kemp

seconded

the

Motion passed.

Recommended Action
Approval of May 2007 Service Changes
Jesse Carter and Bill Porter provided clarification to the question
asked by Director Kemp on what happened to the W route. Bill
Porter explained the new name for the W route is the 70X since
the W no longer would qualify as a regional route.
Bill Porter also addressed Director Brohl’s concern that the new
route changes for May would coincide with the school schedule.
Bill Porter explained that they would and where there is an
exception of one week, they will run a special schedule to make
sure the schools are covered.
Approval of Amended Bylaws
This item is discussed under item II below.
Resolution NO_ Series of 2007 (Salaried Employee Pension TrustTrustee Appointments)
This item is discussed under item IV below.

II.

Amended Bylaws
Director Martinez walked through the proposed changes as outlined in a
memo dated 2/9/07 to the Directors from Paula Perdue. This memo
indicated the proposed changes received from the Directors and legal
counsel, Marla Lien.
The Committee chose to accept some of the proposed changes and to
reject others. For a copy of the accepted changes, please refer to the
amended bylaws, revision 3 which will go before the Board for approval
on February 20. 2007.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 13, 2007 12:00
p.m. Page 6 of 6
III.

RTD Staff Organization Revisit
Cal Marsella shared with the 8 Board members present, the
reorganization that he is implementing. More information of these
changes will be forthcoming.

IV.

2006 GM Performance Goals
Director Kemp indicated that he had not received any responses from the
Directors on his request from 2/7/07 for the GM Performance Evaluation.
Hearing no objection, the Committee moved forward for the approval of
the 2006 GM Performance Evaluation.
Motion:
Director Quinlan made the motion
to approve the
2006 GM
Performance Evaluation.
Second:
Director Kemp seconded the
motion
Vote on the
Motion:

Motion passed unanimously.

V.

Board Resolution Appointment to Pension Plan
After some discussion, Chair Martinez made the decision to move this
issue forward for a vote at the Board meeting 2/20/07.

VI.

Arapahoe Station Excess Parking Plan
This item was previously discussed by Cal Marsella under Unanimous
Consent and was approved to move forward.

VII.

Contracting Fare Inspectors
This item was previously discussed by Cal Marsella under Unanimous
Consent and will go before the Operations Committee this Thursday,
2/15, for Committee approval.

VIII.

Other Matters
 Cal Marsella informed the committee he has been asked to join
“New Colorado” with a cost of $5K.
 Marla Lien shared that RTD is being sued by Alvertis Simmons for
Breach of Contract.
 Cal plans to further explain a Legislative Bill to the Directors. It is
a bigger issue than previously thought.
 The Mileage Differential Resolution was discussed and the
Executive Committee agreed to revise/update the Resolution to
spell out clearly that mileage over 30 will only be given to
Directors traveling from home to RTD. This Resolution will be
updated and brought as a Board action item on 2/20/07.

IX.

Adjournment – Hearing no objections, the meeting was adjourned at
2:00 p.m.

