1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

STUDY SESSION
February 25, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Bruce Daly
Director, District N
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Claudia Folska
Director, District E

Status
Present
Absent
Absent
Present
Present

Arrived
5:30 PM

5:23 PM
5:07 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:31 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:16 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present
Present
Remote

5:17 PM
5:27 PM
5:34 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present
Present

5:19 PM
5:07 PM
5:33 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

4:51 PM

Directors Bagley and Daly were absent. Director Rivera-Malpiede participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Ivan Broce, Sarah Camacho, Rick Clarke,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Janet Huhn, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus,
Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed,
Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Doug Gragg, Marta Sipeki, Vivian Stovall, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

II.

Federal Funding and Bus Rapid Transit Key Messages
Chair Sisk welcomed Mr. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, to the
Study Session. Mr. Van Meter introduced Mr. Brian Welch, Senior Manager for Planning
Technical Services and Ms. Nadine Lee, Project Manager for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT), who will all share in presenting the Key Messages.
Mr. Welch started the presentation by referring to the Power Point sent to the Board of
Directors in the Agenda Packet. He addressed the current federal funding process for New
Start. He pointed out that in order to receive New Start federal funding, the agency needs
to have the infrastructure to successfully run the program as well as have the finances to
fund the program. Mr. Welch pointed out RTD’s great record with New Start funding,
having received funding for the South-West Rail line and the West Rail line. Mr.
Washington interjected reminding the Board of Directors of the question raised to Patton
Boggs in December, 2013 RE: North West rail chances to receive any federal funding. The
answer at the time was the chances were not good due to the New Start criteria, which
include environmental benefits, cost effectiveness, existing land use patterns, congestion
relief, mobility improvements, and economic development effects. Mr. Welch compared
the ridership of projects in the Los Angeles and Chicago areas. Director Folska pointed out
that due to population density Denver projects are comparable in nature to those in bigger
cities. Mr. Van Meter interjected with a brief background of the FasTracks Plan
Development and how the East Rail, the Gold Rail, and the West Rail were chosen as they
fit the best under the then New Start guidelines. In 2004, RTD FasTracks assumed
$815M in New Start funding for the mentioned rail lines. As Congress is currently
revisiting the New Start guidelines, the Directors have an opportunity to potentially weigh
in on not just the guidelines but what projects are eligible. Mr. Washington gave more
context and mentioned how those 3 rail lines were selected under the T21 funding, which
was valid from 2001 until 2003. AfterT21, SAFETEA-LU, a 6 year bill was put in place.
After SAFETEA-LU expired nothing else was set in place until Map 21, a 2 year bill set to
expire on September 30, 2014. He mentioned the importance of “the ask” as influencing
the new transportation reauthorization bill.
Mr. Welch concluded with next steps: move forward with South East Corridor, focus on
reauthorization of Map-21, and continue to proactively analyze RTD New Start and Small
Start candidate corridors.
Ms. Lee’s presentation covered the industry perspective of BRT. She started with local
BRT examples. The Mall Shuttle is a fast and frequent connection through downtown and
its businesses with a high ridership. The 0 Limited with exclusive lanes during peak
periods have aided in the development of the South Broadway businesses. Other local
BRT examples include the 120X, 122X, and the 86X. For BRTs to qualify for funding,
Ms. Lee pointed out they must emulate services provided by rail fixed guideway systems,
including stations, Park and Rides, arrival and departure information, intelligent

transportation system technology, traffic signal priority, off-board fare collection,
advanced bus technology and frequent service.
Mr. Van Meter addressed funding challenges for BRTs, such as the Federal Transit
Authority (FTA)’s definition of BRT determining the eligibility for funding and how many
transit agencies’ definitions do not conform to FTA’s definitions. Each transit agency
approaches BRTs differently due to the characteristics of each corridor and how unique
investments make each BRT successful. He sees influencing policy to enable federal
funding eligibility for RTD BRT projects as a goal for the Directors while they are in
Washington, D.C. He encouraged the Board of Directors to thank the Congressional
Delegation for their support and ask for continuing support by:
 Restoring the original definition of BRT from the prior transportation bill
 Restoring the prior transportation bill option to allow current year or future
forecasts for New Starts cost-effectiveness evaluations
Mr. Washington expressed his desire to send the Board of Directors to Washington D.C.
with a position of knowledge. He explained how Map21 streamlined the process and how
Denver has the only Public-Private Partnership (P3) in the country. The project is 60%
complete, on budget, and on schedule; Congress and other transit agencies will assume
the Directors are knowledgeable on P3s. The House Transportation and Infrastructure
committee has a P3 panel, a group of 11 congress members looking at how to increase
transit. RTD will testify in front of the panel on March 5th for the second time. The first
time was on April, 2010.
Chair Sisk opened the floor to the Board of Directors. Director Walker asked Mr.
Washington if there were other agencies that have the capability and support in the
communities to support a P3. Mr. Washington replied that in order to have a P3, the
agency needs a revenue stream. RTD has a 4 tenths of a cent sales tax from the
November, 2004 vote. Maryland and Charlotte, NC have a revenue stream, whether from
sales or property taxes. The challenge they face is the lack of staff expertise to execute
it. RTD worked with the FTA to properly execute P3; therefore no other agency in the
country knows how to execute a P3. Director Walker asked if maybe in the future, RTD
may want a dedicated bus lane. He indicated that zoning is also important. Mr. Van
Meter said there was no yes or no answer, and that theoretically it could be possible. Ms.
Lee pointed out how local cities rely on the transit component to make progress successful
and how development occurs at the city level placing the infrastructure even when the
BRT is not fully developed.
Director Tobiassen encouraged the Directors to socialize with other organizations and
leaders in order to have a broad base of support and have the message come from other
venues. He suggested meeting with the Congressional Delegation locally for “the ask” and
interact with them socially in Washington, D. C. He noted the possibility of a BRT on

Colfax and how it may apply to Aurora, get an update from the Colfax study and look at
the bigger picture, which may include parking, rezoning, and other details.
Director Lubow asked about the possibility of asking for funding for the North West Rail
and other unfunded corridors as part of the rewriting of the policy. Mr. Washington replied
that the recommended asks were determined due to the alignment with the FTA’s policies.
RTD has a great reputation of getting funding since it has made the right asks. He
stressed the North West rail line has been in thought since 2002 and not forgotten. Mr.
Welch added other transit agencies are also strategic when it comes to funding requests.
Mr. Washington reiterated that it is important that we make the “right” ASK.
Director Anderson explained the process Arvada went through from a local government
perspective to position themselves for the Gold Rail line starting in the late 80’s and early
90’s by making land decisions on the probability of a rail line as well as participating in
major studies to make sure the town would be able to compete for viability. She
mentioned how Gene Putnam and the Thornton City Council worked to change the
expectation on what ridership may be. She noted RTD has done a great job at being
strategic when asking for federal funding and how the local cities have also worked to
make sure the steps are in place in order to ask for federal funding. Finally, she pointed
out how Map21 is up for restructure and this may be the best time to ask for policy
changes.
Director Folska asked what the threshold is between a Small Start and a New Start. Mr.
Van Meter replied it was $75M. She mentioned as the land value in participating
municipalities along a BRT improves, it may be difficult to establish Transit-Oriented
Development (TOD). Mr. Van Meter replied that it could be done but with major
investments. Director Folska noted that a developer may find it hard to get a loan for
property in such area and the possibility to explore a hybrid definition of BRT. She used as
an example partnering with Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) with a High
Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lane from Ft. Collins to Pueblo. Mr. Van Meter replied that
under SAFETEA-LU a BRT was defined as a fixed guideway or a combination of factors
that support long term corridor investments. Director Folska asked in regards to revenue if
recreational marijuana could be taxed. Mr. Van Meter and Mr. Washington replied that
RTD is seeking a total of 1% tax on recreational marijuana.
Director Solano pointed out the economic development in Adams county tying Ft. Collins
to DIA and would like to see the local municipalities working towards TOD. Mr.
Washington noted that RTD supported the Small Start funding from 124th to 162nd but
going to Fort Collins is outside of the RTD District. If they wanted, they could be
incorporated, which includes RTD collecting sales taxes for the area.

Director Malpiede thanked the staff on their outstanding work and encouraged the
Directors to go to the Congressional Delegation with a unified voice.
Chair Sisk exhorted the Directors to go to Washington, D. C. with a clear message since
RTD has a great reputation to uphold. He understood Director Lubow’s point, and
encouraged the Directors to advocate for the message presented while keeping ears open
for new alternatives.

III.

Other Matters
Chair Sisk recognized Mr. Washington as a recipient of the Juanita Gray Award. Mr.
Washington noted the award was an agency award for the West Line, not a personal
award.
Chair Sisk recognized Director Folska as the recipient of the Advancing Women in
Transportation in Colorado Diversity Leadership Award. Director Folska mentioned she
received the award on behalf of RTD and the great work on encouraging diversity
throughout the agency and district. She recognized Ms. Laura Kessler, a Bus Operator for
Boulder Intercity, as the Helene M. Overly Memorial Graduate Scholarship recipient from
the same organization.
Director Walker announced Denver and RTD as the host of the 2015 American Public
Transportation Association (APTA) Conference. Director Anderson asked if there would be
fundraising involved. Director Walker mentioned that he will be talking to his counterparts
from other agencies on the details and will know more as plans become finalized.
Mr. Washington announced Ms. Marla Lien, RTD’s General Counsel, was selected as the
Vice Chair for Legal at APTA.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 7:20 P.M.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

