2025-07-15
Finance and Planning Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good evening. Welcome to the July 15 Finance and Planning Committee. We will
now come to order. It is 5:30 PM. And I would respectfully ask anyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like access to this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of the meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I would like to now call
the roll for the committee members. Vice Chair Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Gutschenritter. Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And I am Chair Guzman. It looks like we are also joined by our Board Chair, Julien
Bouquet. And let's see. I do not see any other Directors at this time. Mr. Kroll, if you can just help me keep
an eye out. if Director Gutschenritter joins, or another Director, I would appreciate that.
OK. This is the public comment section, and I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like
to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your
virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments
or responses. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the
RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. I do not see any hands raised, Mr. Kroll.

JACK KROLL: Chair Guzman, I concur. There are no hands raised. All
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Right. Did we receive any written or emailed comments for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: You did not.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. With no participants in the queue, we will close the public comment period
at this time. We do not have any external entity reports for today's meeting, so we will move ahead to
recommended action. This evening, we have six recommended actions before us tonight, and our goal will
be to navigate through them thoroughly yet efficiently.
To aid us in our work, I partnered with Vice Chair Benker to estimate the time needed for both presentation
and discussion on each of the items. Those times are printed on the agenda, and I will do my best to keep
us on those times. However, our conversation may warrant more or less time on each item as we go through
them. Nonetheless, this practice aligns with our operating guidelines, and it was effective in helping us work
through items last month, when we also had a large agenda. If any committee member or Director has
feedback on this approach, please feel free to reach out to me after our meeting.
I would also advise everybody to get down to two questions so we can move through all of the Directors
here. And then if there is further comment or question, we can return back to the beginning of the queue.
The first action is for the 2026 Comprehensive Operations Analysis. This should take approximately 25
minutes. This is for the Board of Directors to authorize a transfer of $3,500,000 from the unrestricted fund,
approve the scope summary for a solicitation, and authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, to enter into a contract for consulting services to conduct the 2026 Comprehensive Operational
Analysis, also known as a COA. Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is there a second?
MATT LARSEN: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I have the movant as Director Guissinger and the second as Director
Larsen. Thank you very much. I would ask our General Manager and CEO, Ms. Debra Johnson, to present
this item to the committee.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. To all committee members and
Board members that are assembled, thank you so much for the opportunity to engage this evening. Before
I yield the floor to my esteemed colleagues, I wanted to ground us in what we're actually doing here.
There's been several conversations that have ensued relative to a Comprehensive Operational Analysis.
Several years ago, the agency took part in leveraging a Comprehensive Operational Analysis in which the
agency branded it as Reimagine RTD that had two components, one short term being the System
Optimization Plan and a longer range, which was called Mobility for the Future. Recognizing that there has
been a myriad of aspects that have happened at this agency, we are looking to ensure that we're grounding
us in what it is that we're trying to do relative to our service delivery model here at this agency.
Some of you may be aware that RTD traditionally hadn't done what is frequently occurring in the transit
industry by looking at its services comprehensively because RTD was in this period of time in which there

were various segments of its network being added in. Hence, if there was a new rail line coming on board,
any redundancy with rubber tire fleet was "modiflied"-- modified, excuse me. What we're attempting to do
here is ensure that we're grounding ourselves in to looking at land use, looking at various developments.
There's a myriad of different factors that come into play, as well, that will enable RTD to ensure that it's
leveraging service standards, our stop spacing policy, and things of the like.
Tomorrow, at the Operations, Safety, and Security Committee, there will be a discussion pertaining to what
RTD currently has as service standards, recognizing that there is an inherent nexus to a Comprehensive
Operational Analysis. There has been discussions that have ensued in a myriad of different forums with
this Board, be it in Performance Committee, at Board retreats that have been held. And you have heard me
constantly say that as we look to assess services and how we optimize efficiency for the betterment of
increasing transit utilization that we have to be grounded in a comprehensive operational analysis.
Heard some conversation prior to the commencement of the meeting about office space. Recognizing
where we are currently situated with downtown vacancy rates and things of the like, we want to ensure that
we have a formulaic approach relative to transit utilization factored around activity centers and potential for
development, as I said once before.
So with that as a backdrop, I will yield the floor to members of our Long-Range Planning Team, being Doug
Monroe and Brian Welch, Doug Monroe serving as the Manager of Corridor Planning, who works in
conjunction with our Service Development Team because there is a nexus to that, as well. So without
further ado, I'll yield the floor relative to what we're trying to do here with the unrestricted fund transfer,
recognizing that there will be subsequent discussions relative to a COA and the Operations, Safety, and
Security Committee. So with that, Mr. Munro, the floor is yours.
DOUGLAS MONROE: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. My name is Doug Monroe. I'm the Manager
of Corridor Planning in RTD's Planning Department. This project, the Comprehensive Operations Analysis,
I think General Manager Johnson summarized it well. This is basically looking at all of RTD's services
across the district and developing a plan that best uses RTD's resources while serving the needs of the
district as well as we can.
The core components of it are looking at our existing services and evaluating those against each other and
seeing what works well and what doesn't, engaging with our stakeholders across the district to understand
the wants and needs of those stakeholders, looking at market research and travel patterns across the
district-- and this is something that we did in the previous System Optimization Plan, looking at data of
travel patterns, not just on transit but on other modes that we can potentially serve, RTD could potentially
serve those trips, as well, and optimizing service to look at those types of trips, as well-- and then, finally,
developing the updated transit network that we would implement at some point in the future.
The goal with this budget transfer is to be able to start the procurement process here in 2025 and develop
the detailed scope and get the procurement process started, with the goal of having a consultant on board,
either by the end of this year or early next year, so that we can hit the ground running in 2026 and get this
Comprehensive Operations Analysis completed in approximately 18 months. So I think that's a good
overview of the project. And I assume, at that point, we can take any questions from the committee
members.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. I just want to note for the record that we are joined by Director
Ruscha, and it is an opportunity now for directors to ask questions. Are there any comments or questions?
Raise your virtual hand. Vice Chair Benker, your hand went up first. You're recognized.

KAREN BENKER: Thank you. A couple of comments and then a question. It looks as though the money
for this was put into the 2025 budget, and it's not necessarily coming out of unallocated balance reserves.
Is that correct? I don't know. Is Kelly here?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. The CFO is here. And to the point, Director Benker, we did foresee this coming.
We're just moving the money, so we can start with the procurement process, but I'll yield the floor to CFO
Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, that is correct. This is included in the budget. It is not unallocated. Thank you.
KAREN BENKER: Wonderful. Good. I'd like to hear that. And then, actually, my real question-- I've been
wondering about this now for some time-- and that is RTD staff knows our routes far better than a contractor.
And so I have wondered why we do not do the COA internally. Why do we contract this out, since I'm
assuming the contractor is going to have to come to RTD to gather a lot of data, go to DRCOG to gather a
lot of data, and then they're going to be putting it together and bringing it back to RTD.
Don't we have staff capable of doing this work ourselves? And wouldn't our staff know this the best and
have the most accurate information? So I'm just opening that up. I know RTD contracts a lot of things out,
but this one seems like it should be, inside baseball stuff. So anyone can answer that. I'd appreciate it.
Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. And thank you very much, Vice Chair Benker, for the
question. So keeping in mind we do have staff that are very adept at their jobs, recognizing an 18-month
study, considering what we currently do do relative to long-range planning and service development, we
would be pulling people away from their jobs in reference to doing this in a comprehensive fashion.
Recognizing that there's a myriad of different elements revolving around stakeholder engagement. You
heard from Mr. Monroe looking at travel patterns and things of the like. Our staff will be working in tandem
with them.
We will have a RTD project team, as well as a consultant team. In my years of being in this business,
customarily, it behooves us to leverage consultancy in most instances for a comprehensive operational
analysis, because we want to be able to optimize different lessons learned with other transit system reworks
and network adjustments, and we can leverage that going forward. And it will be done because we are
retaining services for them to work on this. If we were going to do something of this magnitude in-house, it
would take us a lot longer period of time, and we'd probably have to add on additional staff.
So that would be the response I give. I am happy to have Mr. Monroe elaborate, if you'd like to add anything
additional, sir, in reference to what I have said, from my perspective, at least, at other transit agencies,
since I did come on in the midst of the previous System Optimization Plan. Thank you.
DOUGLAS MONROE: I think you covered it well. It's just the scale of a project like this to complete it in a
timely manner. With our staff's already full plates, having consultants on board to help us with it is definitely
necessary. I think it also brings in somewhat of an outside perspective to look at things from a different lens
than our own staff look at, as well. So it helps bring a different perspective to how we look at things. And

these consultants come with experience from all over the country and can provide us with some insights
from other places, as well.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you sir. So I would just ask the same of this as I would any other contract that
moves through this committee, or any committee-- most of them are moving through this one-- is that staff
make sure they send the Board [AUDIO OUT] terms, conditions, well in advance of these votes so that we
know what we are voting on, and we don't have to dig through OpenGov to get the parameters as such.
It's been brought up before, and I'm hoping I don't sound disagreeable by asking again. Individually, as a
Board member, I go and look for that information. And I would just appreciate if staff could do that for us,
since this is a large amount of money we're talking about. I am, obviously, very much a yes on moving
forward with the COA, but I would be remiss if I didn't note that I was not pleased with how we did our SOP.
And that was me as a constituent, being a very active constituent in my community relative to transit before
I was on the Board.
I know that was a couple-year process. And, generally speaking, I have not been pleased with some of our
consultants as it relates to community outreach. I think our internal team does a better job. And I am hoping
it's different with this round. So what I would be looking for, personally, is not just the set of documents I
previously referenced, even though I know where to get them, but also a very firm and clear explanation
from staff as to why this team is the A team.
And that's not about our internal staff. I trust us. But when we make an investment in consultants and an
outside group, we're putting our constituents and our planning future on the line. And so that's what I would
like to hear more about at our full Board meeting later this month. Thank you. And thank you, Chair Guzman,
for permitting me to speak as a guest.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I am so sorry. I don't know if it was just on my end, but it sounded like you
cut out, and I wanted to make sure I got the first part of your comment. You asked the agency to send, and
then you cut out, and then it rejoined at "terms and conditions." So you might have said something that I
didn't hear. What was the missing piece in that, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, sir? Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. No, I was-- and, yes, I'm in transit, so I apologize for the unstable
connection. So I had stated that I would appreciate if staff sent out the RFP, generally for this and any other
contract-- RFP, RFQ, our requests for proposals-- before we vote on these contracts. Because while we
can go get them online, most of us-- I don't know if all of us-- most of us know where to go. That is an extra
step, or steps, on our behalf. And I think it's just a matter of respect if staff could frontload that for us so that
we are more prepared before we vote on tens of millions or hundreds of millions of dollars moving out of
the Board. That's about what I said. Is that understood? I'm not sure what part wasn't caught. Is that OK,
sir?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It was the RFP and the RFQ that I didn't hear, and I wanted to make sure I captured
it in my notes. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. I apologize if I was repetitive.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Nope, you're good. Any other directors? I don't see any other hands raised. Madam
CEO, I just want to thank you for bringing this up and bringing this forward as a recommended action. I am
truly excited about this. I think it's overdue since the COVID-19 pandemic has happened and we are living
in a new reality.
And it'll be good to get new facts into the system to be able to provide better service to our constituents and
to all of our customers, both those local and those visiting. So thank you very much for bringing this forward.
And I am going to take a vote. Are there any no votes on this item? Seeing no no votes, this will pass with
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 yes, zero no, and one absent from this committee and be moved to the Board.
The second action for tonight is the Bus Stop Infrastructure and Accessibility Assessment Contract
Amendment. Mr. Kroll. Sorry.
JACK KROLL: That's OK. I just don't think Director Catlin has returned yet. She had some internet issues.
So I think we'll record the vote as five yes-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
JACK KROLL: --one away and one absent. And Director Catlin will be back with us as soon as she's able.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for the correction. I appreciate that. All right. We'll continue on. The second
action is for the Bus Stop Infrastructure and Accessibility Assessment Contract Amendment. This should
take approximately 20 minutes for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or
her designee, to execute a change order to the contract with Nelson/Nygaard Consulting Associates, Inc.
to facilitate the completion of enhanced scope of work elements for the Bus Stop Infrastructure and
Accessibility Assessment Project in the amount of $231,862, increasing the total amount not to exceed from
$608,772 to $840,634. Do we have a motion?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have the movement. Is Director O'Keefe.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And the second as Director Guissinger. Thank you very much. I would like to ask-sorry-- I would like to ask Mr. Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, to present this
item to the committee.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Chair. I'd also like to recognize Carl Green Jr, who's assisting me as part of the
project management team on this project. And he'll be available to answer any questions, as well, after my
short presentation.
Just a little bit to note, just to summarize the Board report, as Chair Guzman said, we are requesting an
additional amount of $231,000-plus to be added to the contract. And there's three primary areas where that
money will be used. The first is being on internal coordination project management, where we have a Project
Management Committee that was not originally anticipated in the original scope that the consultant is using
in conducting meetings with staff that's been proved to be very valuable in this process to get feedback
from other departments within the agency that deal with bus stops-- so that has been a very good addition
to the project-- as well as the biggest item here is the data collection piece.

Under this piece, we are asking to add monies to allow us to do imagery for all of our stops. And you can
think of this as like a Google car that goes around and takes pictures of all of our bus stops. Originally, we
had only partial stops funded, meaning that we would use other means to collect data, including things like
Google Maps.
But after conferring with the consultants and with other staff, we determined that it would be most
advantageous to actually collect that imagery for all stops. And that would allow us to deal with some issues
that we've had with our current data, which is a lack of consistency. And we'd have that consistent level of
information for every stop in our service area.
And, finally, the third piece would be going towards enhanced stakeholder and governmental engagement,
specifically to cover county workshops that we would do. As noted in the Board report, over 96% of the
stops that we currently serve are not controlled or maintained by RTD. Those are typically maintained by
local jurisdictions and county staff. And so we think it's really important to engage them, particularly at that
county level. I think it's a great venue, or vehicle, to do this.
So with that, there is money in the current 2025 budget for this item, for this additional scope. And then one
other final note is we do plan to come to the Board, to this committee, in November to give a full briefing on
this. At that point, we will have our data collection complete, and we'll have done some analysis. And we
can have a robust presentation with the Board on where we're at with the study. So with that, Chair, I would
be open for any questions from the Board.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. This is your opportunity. I am going to call on committee
members first-- no disrespect. Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Sirois. So there's an ongoing Board effort by
Directors Nicholson and Paglieri that is looking at the transit welcoming environment. Are we going to merge
these two research projects together? I would assume so.
And, also, it would be helpful, just for jurisdictions in my district, if we're having trouble getting them to make
improvements, I'm happy to carry that flag with them. I'm hoping everyone is just perfectly agreeable in
District H, but I'm sure that's not perfectly the point. So the question, and then an offer, once we get some
actionable data reaching out to the jurisdictions. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. If I may address the question posed by committee member
O'Keefe as it relates to welcoming transit environment and the work that's underway by Secretary Nicholson
and Director Paglieri, at this juncture, we have yet to be fully briefed. I know they are looking at a myriad of
things. But keeping in mind the important aspect of a welcoming transit environment is critically underwritten
in crime prevention through environmental design. So when we talk about transit stops and amenities,
having various aspects of lighting and other things that would deter unwanted behavior, quite naturally, that
would be embedded in this as we move forward because that will enable us to create standards to ensure
that there is a welcoming transit environment.
So I wanted to couch that in that manner going forward. And I jumped in front of Bill Sirois because I know
he hasn't been well versed in that because we're waiting to get updates as it relates to where those Board
members are with their undertaking. So, quite naturally, as we compile that information, stakeholder
engagement is paramount because, for those jurisdictions that may be putting in amenities within their

rights of way, we want to ensure that there is consistency and that there are standards whereby we can
provide certain specifications.
But with that, I'll yield the floor to Mr. Sirois and/or Mr. Green as we talk about the direction in which we're
going because we want to ensure, regardless of who is the owner of said amenity, that it is reminiscent of
RTD's brand as we move forward. So I'll yield the floor, Mr. Sirois, if you want to elaborate any.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. I would just say, we'd be welcome to work with
Director Paglieri and Director Nicholson on their information once they have it together. The fundamental
premise of this effort, it really is to look at the welcoming transit environment. The bus stops are our
customers' first kind of experience with the transit system. And looking at making that a more welcoming
environment, we're looking at a variety of issues ranging from ADA to what amenities are present to things
like lighting and other things. So we certainly welcome that ability to coordinate with Directors Paglieri and
Nicholson.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you. Thank you, Bob.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I have a concern. I'm going to say it really quickly, and then I will pivot to
Director Ruscha. I'm not seeing any other hands. This all looks really good. I have a concern about the Title
VI portion of this and the communities that we are serving. Where we have a denser population, we seem
to have more trouble with taking care of some of those stops. And along those routes, I would be interested
in finding out, as this progresses, how we intend to make sure that we're taking care of them.
Obviously, this is a cooperative and a collaborative project between RTD and our local municipalities or
counties, depending on where these stops are at. Will this lead into a discussion about that, or will this
clearly define who is on first for these bus stops? There's different rules in every county.
For example, in Denver, now that we are paying for trash removal, there's been a lot of questions in different
neighborhoods where a neighbor has generously put out a trash can, collected that trash, thrown it in the
dumpster for the purpose of keeping their properties clean and clear. But now it's a cost issue if they're
taking on the garbage that's left by the public and the customers of our system.
And so I'm just curious, how does this process navigate through some of those. And is that where we need
to, then, as directors, carry the flag, as Director O'Keefe said, with our local municipalities or our local
elected officials to ensure that we have good cooperation on this matter? Chair?
BILL SIROIS: I'll defer to General Manager Johnson.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Looks like she said you, Mr. Sirois. [LAUGHS]
BILL SIROIS: Oh, OK. Thank you, Chair Guzman. I would just say that equity is a fundamental part of this
effort, and we are going to be looking at that in terms of criteria. As we look at prioritizing areas we want to
improve our bus stops, that will certainly play into it. I would say we've already started to have conversations
with our jurisdictional partners about how they approach maintenance. And the whole goal of this, I think,
is to hopefully develop a standard, or standardization, that we can rely on and help us have a consistency
across our bus stops.
That is going to require resources. And we have been very open with our jurisdictional partners that we
don't necessarily have money, but we want to partner, and we want to talk about things, and we're going to

be exploring things, including looking at new monies, like from DRCOG and other sources, that we could
potentially put towards bus stops as part of this effort.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. Director Ruscha, your hand is raised. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So you touched on what I was about to talk about, which was Title VI.
And I just want to make sure-- I do have a shaky connection-- you can hear me OK?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. I'd turn my camera on, but then it would be more unstable. So I just
want to be clear. I'm going to make a statement. Let's call it my opinion. We do have some money, and
counties have money. It's where they put their money. And low-income communities and communities of
color don't have the same amenities as others. Anyone who rides the system knows that. You'll see it.
And so what I would like to understand in terms of our long-term vision-- I understand the study. It mirrors
a bit what DOTI-- excuse me, Denver Department of Transportation Infrastructure-- had done. What I would
like to understand, after the study is completed and we know more of what we already know to be true,
what is the intended outcome? Are we going to create standards that we expect across our system, similar
to how we have with routes? What changes are we going to make internally in terms of processes and how
we allocate dollars or how we expect our partners to allocate dollars?
That is what I want. That's what I want to know, the long-term goals as it relates to equity. Because, again,
anyone writing our system today sees the disparity. And then, if I could, just I wanted to make a note, or
piggyback off of something that Director O'Keeffe said about a welcoming transit environment. In my district,
more often than not, it is the police department, in collaboration with sometimes local business or local
residents, but it is the police department that asks us to remove stops and to remove amenities. And that
is also an equity question.
So I know that what I just said cannot be addressed very quickly. And I don't mean to put our GM/CEO on
the spot. But I would feel remiss if I just didn't bring these things up and call a spade a spade. This issue
was originally OSS. It's been moved over to F&P, which is fine. But it really is a matter for the whole Board
to consider, and consider holistically, and really dig in.
I don't remember the appendix letter in our Title VI report, but our amenities and some of that data is in our
Title VI-- all of our Title VI reports, all of our annual ones. And I encourage directors who are interested to
go back and take a peek. And I'm sure the Board Office would be happy to direct you to the correct page,
as you'd be looking at a 1,300-page document. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Madam CEO, your hand was raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very kindly, Committee Chair Guzman. And thank you, Director
Ruscha, for the question. I am answering this question because we're talking about a long-term strategy,
and I do believe that me, in my role-- I, in my role, rather-- basically have been intentional. We are doing
this bus stop analysis for the sole purpose of ensuring that we have a common set of facts.
Recognizing the information that Mr. Sirois put forward, that RTD does not have auspices over all of its
amenities, we want to ensure her that we have data sets that enable us to be intentional as we move
forward. When we think about a COA that's being done and we're having information relative to our bus

stops and amenities associated with those bus stops are located, we can then plan accordingly as we move
forward.
I appreciate what you said, Committee Chair Guzman, relative to the appearance, sometimes, as it relates
to the disparate appearance, perhaps, in more densely populated areas. We're cognizant of that. That's
why it's imperative that we go through this analysis. And this is in Finance and Planning, recognizing that,
with the committee's assignments, the Finance and Planning Committee is responsible for financial matters
but also as we look at long-range planning and capital projects. And so I just want to be clear relative to
what we're planning for and what we're operating, and that's the distinction.
But as we move forward, when we look at service standards, this will go hand in hand, so we can look at
our agency's service delivery model comprehensively. Because when you look at service standards from
the point of doing, say, a COA, we want to ensure that we are moving the system. We want to ensure that
there is a standard speed of the system in more densely populated areas. So that comes into play where
bus stops are located, perhaps, in the Central Business District. They're every other block-- I'm using that
hypothetically-- versus an area that is less populated, they may be one every quarter mile. And so this will
put us in that position moving forward.
So, yes, there is a strategy relative to ensuring that we have data that we can collect and merge it with our
service standards for the betterment of bus stop placement and other aspects that we do as we deliver
service. And, quite naturally, equity is interwoven in all of that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Seeing no other discussion on the matter, I guess it's time to take the
vote. Are there any no votes on this action? I see none. It looks like that will go forward-- five yes, one away,
and one absent. All right. Thank you very much.
The third action is for the Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project Progressive Design-Build Contract Award
for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a
Progressive Design Build contract with FlatironDragados, Herzog downtown rail joint venture for the
remaining phases of the Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project, consisting of design and full depth
reconstruction of light rail tracks from 7th Street and West Colfax Avenue to 30th Street and North Downing
Street in an amount not to exceed $125 million. Sorry, I don't want to say it incorrectly. Do we have a
motion?
MATT LARSEN: Motion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Larsen. Is there a second?
KAREN BENKER: Second. Larsen is the movement. The second is Director Benker. All right. I would like
to ask our General Manager and CEO, Ms. Debra Johnson, to present this item to the committee.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. First and foremost, if you may recall,
at the full Board meeting that took place on June 24, during the course of my General Manager and CEO
Report, I did present a presentation grounding us in the importance of back to basic and asset renewal. In
the course of that presentation, I talked about a myriad of activities that would be happening and different
elements that are rooted in our asset renewal that would be coming before the Board relative to us ensuring
our state of good repair.
Tomorrow evening at the Operations, Safety, and Security Committee, there will be a discussion that
ensues relative to service changes and also the transit equity associated with that service change. More so

to the fact is that we want to ensure, as we invest in our asset renewal to preserve the investment that
taxpayers have made into our transportation network, that we can actually maintain it for an additional 30
years. Included in your Board packet, whereby it starts on package page 31-- well, really, package page
28-- we're talking about the different phases of the downtown rail reconstruction.
Last summer, we had great success in reference to redoing the intersections located in the downtown core.
What Ms. Vishwakarma is going to present momentarily takes us to the next phases 2, 3, and 4 that are
paramount to what I just outlined relative to the state of good repair. And I just wanted to ensure that I was
reminding everyone relative to how this work has come to be and what we are doing relative to the
reconstruction and that this money has been accounted for as we've moved forward with our capital
planning, as well as our asset renewal with transit asset management plans.
And with that, I will yield the floor to Ms. Vishwakarma to state what it is that we're seeking to do here this
evening. Thank you very much, Committee Chair. Appreciate it. Ms. Vishwakarma, the floor is yours.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. Good evening, Chair Guzman and committee
members. So if approved, this contract is for reconstructing about two miles of track through a very heavily
urbanized area, with a significant impact on residential, commercial, and leisure activities. So we are aiming
to spend time in careful planning to minimize disruption to the extent possible. It is a lot of work.
This contract also represents a tremendous increase in capacity to actually deliver work on the ground. So
we did phase I last year. We are embarking on Kalamath, but this progressive design-build contract is to
enable us to tremendously increase what we can do in a very short time frame.
So design for this work is anticipated to commence immediately upon execution of the contract, with
construction of phases 2 and 3 anticipated to be completed by August of 2026. We expect phase 4 will be
completed by the beginning of September 2027. The funding for this project was approved in 2024, and we
have been working on executing various components.
So I am very happy to announce that, going forward, Aprajit Desai, who also goes by the name of Jeet
Desai, will be taking on the role of the Project Manager for this endeavor. And with that, in closing, I am
joined by Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations Dave Jensen for any questions you might have on
this item. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. Directors, any questions on this one? [CHUCKLES] Vice Chair
Benker. You're muted, my dear.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, OK. Thank you for reminding me about the mute. I am still trying to understand the
$125 million project. It's just such a large chunk of change here. You've got a presentation in the packet
that we received. I'm wondering, is this what we're going to be going through the night of the Board meeting,
or are we going to be talking about this also tonight? I find it interesting.
My main question, however, is, when I talked to you about this previously, General Manager, you did
convince me that there are certainly certain sections of this five-mile track of rail where so much traffic has
been going over the track for 30 years now. But here's my question. For some of the sections of the track
where there has been very little, or perhaps even no, car or truck traffic going over the rails, do you think
those sections might not have to be redone? Can we save any money in that particular area?
And then do you think the $125 million, do you think that's going to completely cover the project, or should
we be expecting perhaps the contractors coming back and asking for additional funds? Could you just give

us a little bit more of an overview? Because it's such a large piece, chunk of change, that I'm still having
trouble making one appropriation to go forward and do this. But I am supportive, so let me state that. Thank
you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just really quickly, and then, Debra, I'm going to have you jump in right after. We did
have the summary presentation of what's included in the Board packet at the last Board meeting. And there
are recordings of the full presentation that we can provide any director that might be interested in it from
previous Board meetings that we have held. On the full totality of this project from the beginning, not much
has changed, except the current phase that we're in. Madam CEO, I'll turn it over to you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair. And I'll start. And then, quite naturally,
my gifted staff that's here can add to my comments. So I recognize the price tag may appear to be large. I
operate from the vantage point, you can't put a price tag on safety. And so the reason I say that is, while
the Downtown Rail Replacement Project is $125 million progressive design-build contract, it doesn't just
cover the track replacement but it also includes the upgrades to the stations, the signal systems-- and you
think about 30 years-- additional signage in reference to minimizing confrontation with pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, recognizing this is embedded track.
Not only are we talking about minimizing the confrontation with vehicular traffic-- and what I mean by that,
people in their personal-operated vehicles because, oftentimes, recognizing we're in a shared running
configuration, some individuals may not be adhering to the signage that is within the downtown core. And,
also, we're talking about key safety features across Colfax, the Downtown Loop, and Welton. And so the
cost, in and of itself, the scale of work is clearly over 10,000 of track in a dense urban area. There's an
integrated design that has quality control planning, as well as public outreach.
And I do want to commend the team. We're leveraging the lessons learned that we had last summer where
we really had an integrated approach, leveraging the different downtown business improvement districts,
working with the Chamber, and I could go on and name those. But that's how we really got the word out.
We're able to take people on site visits to acclimate everybody in where we are. And keeping in mind, all of
this is managed within one contract, so you have that consistency and uniformity.
And then more aspects of this is we're addressing key risk, considering volatile material costs. We're in a
phase right now where we don't know what we don't know relative to what's happening with supply chain.
There's a myriad of different colleagues around the country that have had some upheaval as relates to
getting certain aspects of materials readily available, causing a delay.
Also, we talk about the notion behind seasonal impacts if we were going to stop and start as we move
forward. And so it's that continuity, I'd like to say. And each of these factors influences the cost, as well as
schedule and service. And this progressive design-build approach helps manage these complexities with
built-in risk mitigation. So with that, I will yield the floor to Ms. Vishwakarma, who is a registered professional
engineer who serves as our Chief Engineer, as well, and can elaborate as we go forward.
But, really, that's what it's all about. From the vantage point of doing something in a piecemeal fashion, I
don't recommend that from a service delivery perspective, and then optimizing what it is that we actually
want to do as we move forward. So, Ms. Vishwakarma, is there any additional information you'd like to
impart? I yield the floor to you.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. The only thing I would add is that it takes a while to
stand up these infrastructure projects to bring all the components together, whether it is money, consultants,

our capability at the cities we are working in. So it's bringing the factory together every time to manufacture
something. That is how we have to think of this. So doing this in a piecemeal fashion would not be the best
way to approach it. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: And one other thing I might add, as it relates to the conditional assessment. I heard the
question being asked whether or not there could be some savings by not replacing those sections. So in
spite of the fact that some of the sections we're doing are not suffering the lateral forces that Ms. Johnson
spoke of before, it is 30 years old.
When we did construction last year, and every time we go in to these sections, we do post-construction
assessments of the track area. Because it's embedded, we can't see what's going on underneath the
concrete on top. If it was the open right of way, we could see the ties. We could see the clips. We could
see all of the components associated with the track structure. But because it's embedded, we can't. But
what we do know is every time we see it, every time we pull something up, we are seeing the degradation
of the track area that one would expect of track that age.
And so since we've got to go in, anyway, with a full-depth replacement in those areas, we can't guarantee
that if we were not to do that work, it would last much longer. It has reached its end of useful life. It is safe
to operate over now, but prolonging and putting this off would only result in us having to replace it at another
time and another date. And so what we're trying to do is we're trying to get it in and get it replaced before
failure. And because we can't see underneath, it's hard for us to be able to predict when that might be. And
so the time is right for us to be doing this work now.
KAREN BENKER: OK, thank you, Dave. That piece was very helpful because when you're thinking of five
miles, I can't help but think maybe there's half a mile or a mile that we could save some money on that we
don't have to reconstruct. But you makes some good points. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Ms. Vishwakarma and I talked a little bit about this back at the
outgoing directors event. But I have to ask again because I don't recall. It's my feeble mind. But do we have
experience running a progressive design-build? I am willing to stipulate that a CM/GC contract or a
progressive design-build would be the way to do this, but do we have people overseeing FlatironDragados
that have experience with progressive design-builds?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Chair, may I?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Director O'Keefe, you make a great point. So progressive design-build is new
for us at this time. But in order to prepare for it, we brought on specialized legal counsel for the contracting.
We consulted with other agencies across various industries, including transit, water, airports, and mostly
talked to several firms. We also put out a request for information to garner prospective proposals feedback
before we did this.
And as we are going into the project, we are very mindful that this is a new approach for us. It requires us
to think somewhat differently. We have spent time in learning various aspects. And we are ready to learn

and apply the principles with this contract. In the meantime, there is guidance available also from different
government agencies as how to approach it. But the contracting principles remain the same.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So this is definitely a management prerogative. I'm not going to get into the subtleties.
I'll spare everyone the subtleties of contracting. But it's a big contract. It's a big number. It's pretty high
profile. One thing that you might consider, and I'm sure you've talked about it already, is getting some sort
of owner's rep help that's non-legal to help with the contract implementation and also the risk management
as we go through it.
Next question was going to be about contingency. I don't know what number you want on it, but given it's
our first time using this, I don't want us to be too close to the line because the whole reason you use a
progressive design build is they're going to help you identify risks as you go forward. But that means that
we don't know them right now. And we could get into a situation where contingencies becomes a big issue,
as well as implementation. But that is your guys' choice.
I've worked a lot with CM/GC. I've not worked with progressive design-build, so I can't offer any words of
wisdom, either. But that's something-- an owner's rep from the technical side might be a helpful resource
for the committee. And I think it's a great tool for us going forward with other projects. So I think it's great
we're going forward with it.
Sorry, the second question-- I should have said I had two questions-- totally different. On the
communication, I know we used a lot of our traditional channels last year. I heard quite a bit about people
not knowing-- it wasn't so much what was happening, it was when it was going to end and what the phases
were.
And this is probably in the realm of overcommunicating-- talk about it till our customers and our stakeholders
are sick of it, not when we're sick of it. And I think we need to be really creative about having a lot of different
ways to talk to a downtown that's getting more-- I was down there, walking around quite a bit today. It's fun
to see the life in it. Every one of those people has a chance of being an aggrieved customer.
So I just really think we need to learn the lessons from last year, figure out what worked, but also figure out
how we can overcommunicate on this project. I know that all the one-off stakeholders, like Downtown
Denver Partnership and the Chamber and all those folks, they will want to help. They're also going to be
quick to pounce if there's another government contract like the 16th Street Mall-- not our problem but where
there's causing some issues with people downtown. I just don't want us to be the focus of that ire.
So I think we really need to look at what we did and look at new mechanisms and really focus on that life
cycle-- you are here. You have two weeks left. Oh, we had a delay. This is how long we expect the delay
to be. It could be longer. It could be shorter. We will tell you later.
And I just think it's people probably not looking in the right place, but that doesn't change the fact that I
heard quite a bit about it. So that's the other side. And honestly, the contractors should be able to help quite
a bit with that, too, I would expect. So thank you for the two questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Committee Member O'Keefe, for your thoughtful, insightful
remarks. A couple things. This agency is starting to leverage owners reps as we go forward because we
recognize, in some aspects, there are things that we don't know, and it's better to mitigate risk. One thing
for certain, as we talk about communications, quite naturally, this is part of the contract.

We are capitalizing on lessons learned. Our Chief Communications Officer is online with this meeting and
has been working in earnest as relates to having an enhanced comprehensive communications plan that
we're going to leverage through all various avenues. There are some interesting tidbits that we are going
to leverage as we move forward.
But we hear you loudly and clearly, quite naturally. We can communicate and communicate. It's always
going to be a portion of the customer base or a member of the public that will say they don't have the
information. So I just wanted to acknowledge that we hear you loudly and clearly, and we're doing that
going forward. And this is a great opportunity where we can leverage all of you, as well, to be additional
ambassadors as it relates to the communications component. So thank you for that.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yeah, thank you. And thank you for doing the project. I couldn't be happier that we're
catching up on this deferred maintenance backlog that this team inherited. So I don't want that lost in the
questions, too. I'm glad we're doing it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you very much. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. It's really hard to go after Director O'Keefe, usually because he said
something I was going to say, but then he said it better. I'll give it a shot, though. So thank you for your
comments, sir, although I've come to a different conclusion. I won't be supporting this when it comes to a
vote at the end of the month. I believe T-REX was design-build, although not progressive design-build.
Someone can wave at me angrily if I'm wrong. [CHUCKLES]
And as noted, progressive design-build is new for us. We even had to retain special counsel to get through
this contract. And that is actually one of the reasons why I'm a no vote. I know this project, or series of
projects, has been a conversation at Blake Street for a couple of years. But that's internal, and it hasn't
happened with the Board. And that lack of transparency is what's giving me a stomachache.
So as a person who has spent an extraordinary amount of time trying to talk to staff, looking at documents,
looking at the RFI-- RFIs, maybe-- and following the trail and still not coming to a yes when I want to get to
a yes, I'm comfortable voting no on this one. It might be a protest vote, and that's fine.
There are some concerns with progressive design-build, generally. I'll flag them here quickly. We do have
reduced owner control. There's less competitive pricing. There is a risk of scope creep. And then, when you
translate that over to the labor side, which I'm concerned about in terms of respective rights of workers,
early contractor selection could just sideline labor input.
We run the risk, a greater risk, of human trafficking, wage theft, and other violations because we are further
and further away from the project. If we have a compressed timeline, then that can put pressure on labor
standards, which could reduce them, which ultimately becomes a safety issue down the line, and we pay
for it later.
And then, just generally, going back to sidelining labor input, we might have, unclear labor commitments in
the early design phases. And I think that, plus the Board not having the insight and the transparency that I
think is required for us to have to responsibly vote yes on $125 million contract, I'm going to be a no.
I recognize this has the votes to pass, and my vote is not needed for the agency. If anyone in the agency,
though, would like to reach out, sit me down, and help me get to a yes, I'm more than happy to make the
time and take that call or come down to Blake Street. But these are some of the issues I raised earlier in

this conversation when this came up in committee or at the Board, and I've raised privately with our GM
and CEO.
And I'd be more than happy to take it offline and maybe get to a yes at the end of the month. But right now,
I'm, unfortunately, a cautious no. So thank you for letting me say that here, Mr. Finance Chair, so I couldn't
take up the time at the end of the month. And that's all I have.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Ms. Vishwakarma, did you have something to add there?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Yes. I just wanted to make the remark that RTD's staff does have extensive
experience with design-build and other alternate project delivery. We, as a team, also did the first publicprivate partnership in the industry. And that talent still exists within the agency to be able to guide us.
Design-build has fallen out of favor in the industry because it is difficult for contractors, so there are various
ways of selecting contracting mechanisms. I just wanted to add that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: But Mr. Chair-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson-JOYANN RUSCHA: May I follow up quickly?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Quickly.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Thank you for your comment. I just wanted to note, in case it wasn't
clear before, it's not staff that I have concern with. It is the contracting aspect and the distance between us
and the final product. So if my comment was taken to mean I don't trust staff, I apologize. I do trust staff. It
is the nature of the project that makes me a little bit squirmy. So I just wanted to make sure I said that on
the record. And thank you, Mr. Chair, for your grace.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Indeed. Director Nicholson, your hand was up.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. So this is my district. I represent CBD. It's also where I
live. I am literally in the middle of that project area as we speak. And I can hear the light rail trains from my
window. I was talking with a neighbor earlier today who was saying, basically, I'm glad that we're making
the repairs. And they were significantly trepidatious about what that would mean for them, their commute,
and for their downtown.
A couple quick questions. First one is, what kind of interfacing have we done with the mayor's office and
with DOTI to make sure we're not disrupting the flow of pedestrians downtown, or disrupting as little as
possible the flow of pedestrians downtown on the 16th Street Mall and 17th and 15th?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm sorry, Director Nicholson, just so you know, because you were not here at the
beginning, we're limiting ourselves to two questions or a question and a comment, and I will return. But we
are also on a tight time frame, so let's answer one at a time. Does anybody want to take that first one on,
please?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I can, Mr. Chair?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So to answer your question, Secretary Nicholson, we talked about, before you joined
us, that this is embedded rail that is on city rights of way. As I have said in previous meetings, quite naturally,
we have to have any permitting approved by the city. Hence, I have standing meetings with the Executive
Director of the Department of Transportation and Infrastructure. Members of my team are coordinating with
their peers, as well.
So when you think about what it is that we have to do, we are actively collaborating with the city to align
efforts, mitigate schedule risk, and ensure the public experiences this project in a coordinated investment
in the corridor's future. So nothing is being done without them because they have the opportunity to allow
us to go forward with the schedule. So, quite naturally, as we did previously with the past project, when
there were special events downtown, for instance, we did not shut down the intersections during the course
of the 4th of July parade. Those things are still happening now.
But Ms. Vishwakarma could elaborate. But I just wanted you to know that we are working in tandem. And,
quite naturally, any of these projects, we provide briefings. And I'm actively engaged in my level with folks
in the mayor's office and the department heads within the City and County of Denver.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nichol-JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: And I would just like to add that we, at the staff level, also coordinate with
other city staff to make the experience as seamless as possible.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, you have one more to go.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So what I was going to say is, having lived in a number of buildings
downtown, there is a number of mechanisms by which we get information about things that are happening- parades, whatever. Have we put together materials, or will we be putting together materials, digital
information, images, texts that can be circulated, that we can send to building managers in the Downtown
Loop area in CBD that they can circulate to residents? I'm thinking of my building at-- the Boston building,
17th and Champa, the hotels, the Quincy, all of the ones that are going to be impacted by this-- so that
residents are getting regular-- not just one time but regular-- updates on, here's what's happening, here's
what it's going to be finished, here's how we're going, so that they can feel like they're brought in?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I do believe that was how we proceeded last year when we started with the
intersection crossing. And Chief Communications Officer and Community Outreach Mr. Summers ensured
that that was going on with his whole team of people. But Ms. Johnson, please feel free to color that in.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. You hit the nail on the head.
Quite naturally, everything we did last year, we incorporated in the hotels and the businesses. Mr. Summers
is on camera. I will let him elaborate even more relative to the various communication tactics that are being
leveraged because it's not a cookie cutter approach. It's dependent upon the building, the type of
establishment. And so we're leveraging that. But Mr. Summers, the floor is yours, sir. Thank you.
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah, thank you. And thank you, Director Nicholson, for the question. I also live
downtown, so very familiar with traffic flow. One thing that we'll continue to do that we did last year and had
great success, we created what we call toolkits for each of the buildings and the businesses and the hotels.
And those toolkits had sample newsletter copy, flyers that could be printed off. We even offered to print
flyers for different buildings if they wanted to post them at their doors or in their elevators. So we'll continue

to do that. We also hand-delivered them to all of the businesses within a two-block radius of the Downtown
Loop last year, so really trying to make sure that we do that outreach.
This year, since this project will be ongoing for a period of time, we'll continue to do more than just one
touchpoint. We want to make sure that we're doing follow-up. We also provide a phone number and an
email address specific to this project that people can call in if they have questions or concerns or need
more information. So we provide something specific to the project where people can close the loop if they
have things they want to know.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. It's also my district, too, Director Nicholson. The Welton Corridor is the
last phase of this project. And the Kalamath Corridor we're doing this summer is actually in C. So we share
it, and it's all of ours, because we are all one RTD. But I do appreciate the robust insurance for the Central
Business District that you represent so well. Director Benker, your hand is up.
KAREN BENKER: It's pretty much a following on the idea of helping businesses. Small businesses in
Denver have just been hammered. You've had the 16th Street Mall that was shut down for several years.
You've got Colfax going on right now. And small businesses are going out of business. There was just a
bakery that, last week, was declared they're shutting down because of the construction on Colfax.
So are we doing anything special, anything extra, to help those small businesses to survive during the
construction, especially around Five Points, when I can imagine the construction in that neighborhood is
going to be very disruptive? I know the City and County of Denver has got a very small program to help
some of these businesses, but have we considered doing anything along those lines?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Vice Chair Baker, for those questions. As indicated before,
we are working in tandem. Now, this agency does not have a Business Interruption Fund, as this isn't the
same type of capital investment project, say, as putting an entire new rail line that's upending businesses
going forward. But we have been working in tandem relative to providing different avenues for transit pass
support-- when I say that, educating them with various businesses. We leveraged that along the Colfax
Corridor.
So back to Mr. Summers' point, we're really working with the businesses, ascertaining what it is that they
need from us, as opposed to RTD basically dictating what may need to happen as we move forward. So
wanted to share that. So we're open to various ideas. I can't give you a cookie cutter response because it's
really contingent upon that business.
I do see our Deputy CEO, Angel Pea, that has raised his hand, and so I will yield the floor to him. And if
there's anything extra Mr. Summers would like to add, we will go forward with that. So I will yield the floor.
But thank you for the question.
ANGEL PENA: So thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. I do want to amplify your message more. Sometimes we
might think, also, OK, clearly, we recognize the importance of coordinating with the City and County of
Denver. And sometimes we might think, OK, while the timelines of the Downtown Rail Replacement Project
and other projects are overlapping, there might be some questioning about, well, would it make sense to
maybe delay that because of the impacts or what have you?
And then, actually, it is the opposite. If you think, if we do that, we're extending the period of disruption for
the community. So it's also by actually proceeding these efforts while, at the same time, other projects are

happening in the city. We have an opportunity, an opportunity to coordinate that construction, that
construction staging, utility work, and those public communications with the city, just like our Chief
Communications Officer just mentioned.
So this approach, while doing this work while other projects are happening in the city, it helps us to avoid
rework, manage the traffic impacts more effectively, and potentially deliver those traffic improvements for
everybody at once. So we're actively collaborating with the city to align these efforts and mitigate those
schedules risk and ensure that the experience at the end for everyone is working on this as one investment
for the city and not as separate but disconnected enterprise, so united together. We are not going to be
impacting the same area twice, so this is an opportunity of a lifetime to do those at one time.
KAREN BENKER: So you make a very good point, and I appreciate that. I'm just hoping we keep a close
look on those very small businesses that we are going to be impacting, probably for a couple of months,
and if we could make sure that they don't go out of business. But thank you. It was helpful.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Maybe, Mr. Summers, we could work together with some of those smaller businesses
and get their flyers on the inside of our buses when we put other flyers up for a little bit while we do this-might be helpful to drive something their way. I don't know. Just a thought. I do not see any other hands
up. I would just like to say thank you for bringing this forward.
I would extend a hearty congratulations to Jeet Desai, who's going to take over as the Project Manager.
That's wonderful news to hear. Thank you, Ms. Vishwakarma, for sharing that. And I will call for a vote. Are
there any no votes on this item from the committee members? I do not see any. And it does appear that we
are back at six. So that will pass with six yeses, one absent, and zero no's. Thank you very much. Thank
you for helping us keep on time, everybody. I appreciate the robust conversation and keeping it focused.
The fourth action that we are looking at is the East Metro Hoist Replacement Contract Award. This is for
the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a contract
with A D Miller Services, Inc. for the replacement of 15-- one-five-- bus hoists at the East Metro Bus Storage
and Maintenance Facility for a total not to exceed the amount of $5,639,130. Do we have a motion?
MATT LARSEN: Motion
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Larsen.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director O'Keefe. I have Director Larsen as the movement, Director
O'Keefe as the second. And I would ask Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Acting Assistant General Manager of
Capital Programs, to present this item to the committee.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Chair Guzman. This recommended action seeks approval to
replace 15 bus hoists at the East Metro Bus Storage and Maintenance Facility. The contract award is
outlined in pages 38 and 39 of your Board package.
So what a hoist is, it lifts the bus up so people can work underneath it safely, efficiently. So the hoists that
we are seeking to replace were installed during the original building construction in around 1977. Over the
years, these hoists have been repaired, and we've replaced parts for more than 45 years.

So at this time, the manufacturers have stopped supporting spare parts. It's not possible to continue with
that approach, so we are proposing to get new versions of bus hoists, a modern version with a smaller
footprint and better safety and environmental features. These hoists will also be easier to maintain by our
mechanics.
So the project, if approved, is expected to be completed within 18 months following contract award. Since
we will be working in an operational facility, we will be very careful to replace only a few hoists at a time in
order to not disrupt operations. The project is funded from the 2025 budget. And up to $2.8 million of the
cost will be paid through a Colorado Department of Transportation award. So I thank you for your
consideration of this item, and I'm happy to answer any questions you may have.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Directors, do you have any questions or comment on this? I do not see
any hands raised. I would like to just say I think it's great that we can provide this clearly needed update for
our employees, who rely on us to make sure that we allocate funds for safety and to be able to serve the
public.
So let's move to the vote, shall we? Are there any no votes on this matter? I see none. I hear none. We will
have six ayes, one absent, zero no's. We will move that to the Board. Thank you very much.
All right, fifth action. The US 36 Sheridan Bus Platform Expansion Contract award. This is for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a contract with Krische
Construction, Inc. for the expansion of the eastbound US 36 and Sheridan Station bus boarding platform
from four to eight bus bays, for a total not to exceed the amount of $3,321,093.62. Do I have a motion?
MATT LARSEN: Motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So-- second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Larsen is the movant. The second is Director Guissinger. Once
again, I would like to ask Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Acting General Assistant General Manager for Capital
Programs, to present this item to the committee.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you, Chair Guzman. This recommended contract award is for a project
that improves both operations and the customer experience at the US 36 and Sheridan bus location. The
contract award is outlined in pages 40 and 41 of your package. And if, at this time, I can request CFO
Mackey to share page 42, which shows the existing configuration of what we are trying to do. Thank you,
Ms. Mackey.
So in this location, we have four straight-in bus bays leading to buses lining up as they arrive. And this
affects both customers and operations. There is insufficient capacity for all the routes that are projected to
use this location, which comprises of both local and regional buses. And the operators do not know where
to pull in. The customers do not know where to wait.
In addition, accessible parking is not well located in reference to being able to get to buses. We require
people who use those spaces to go a long distance and have more uncertainty as to where they might have
to board the bus. Ms. Mackey, do you mind sharing the next slide, please? Thank you.
So this contract, if approved, what we will do is the four straight spaces will be converted to six sawtooth
bus bays, leaving room for two bus bays. And we will be constructing new ramp and stairs for better access
from the parking lot. We will be able to assign gates to buses. Passengers will know where to wait. And

people who park in accessible spaces will have to travel a much shorter distance to arrive in a more
centralized location to be able to access all the buses.
As part of this project, we are also working to ensure that we take care of any safety-critical items.
Passengers and buses not being well organized is a safety issue. We will be adding two new bus shelters
and adjusting some site amenities, such as lighting, closed-circuit television cameras, and trash
receptacles. The project is fully funded in this year's budget. And for this project, the Colorado Department
of Transportation Grant will be helping us with up to $1.5 million of the cost. And with that, I'm happy to
answer any questions you might have on this item. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. Are there any questions, Directors? Vice Chair Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Just real quick. I wanted to thank you for the renderings. That really made a difference.
I understand it now. Thank you, Debra.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: With these upgrades, are we going to have the ability to do any technology updates
down the road? I know we're working on platforms. This is not a capital project, but is it going to be adaptable
for if we come up with any different screen projections or information sharing? Are we future proofing thisMICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam C-- or, sorry, Jyotsna?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Director O'Keefe, we always strive to put in extra conduits and things of the
like to just make it easier. It also depends on the technology. There are wireless versions, too.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Ms. Vishwakarma, I do apologize. I should have addressed you properly.
That is my mistake. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. So to what degree-- this is piggybacking off of Director
O'Keefe-- to what degree are we prioritizing improving wayfinding in getting people to the right bus stop? I
know when I've taken some of these-- gone to some of these stations before, it's been confusing to figure
out whether I'm going to stop A, stop B, stop C. The signs aren't necessarily always very visible. There
aren't enough overhead signs that make it clear which buses are going into which bays.
How are you thinking about ensuring that when someone comes up to this station, they can quickly and
easily identify, OK, I need to get to E, and my bus is coming in 90 seconds? I'm going to go over there. And
what are we going to be doing as part of this physical upgrade to help people manage the wayfinding now
that there are going to be four more bus bays?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. I appreciate that. So quite naturally, as we talk about the
customer experience, and as Ms. Vishwakarma outlined, we're trying to minimize impacts on operators and
customers. With that, we are always assessing how we could better communicate. Mr. Stuart Summers,

our Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, can expound on what we're doing in the near term.
As Ms. Vishwakarma indicated, we're always trying to leverage enhancements as we move forward. But
this is part of a larger strategy to ensure that experience. So with that, with a laser focus on our strategic
initiative of community and customer connections, I will yield the floor to Mr. Summers.
STUART SUMMERS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson, and thank you, Director Nicholson, for the question. A
couple things to keep in mind. Last summer, we launched a project as an agency to do some station and
stop assessments related to wayfinding signage and customer amenities. That effort's underway. We're
collecting a lot of information about outdated signage, inoperable signage, wayfinding signage that's faded,
needs to be updated, it's not pointing in the right direction, whatever it may be.
We also realize that we don't have a lot of standards around this, so station to station, it differs. And that's
a problem. As we grow as an agency, we want to make sure that everything is reflective of the one RTD
approach. So I say all that to say this is top of mind for us. We are going to be continuing these station
assessments, putting together some standards as an agency, and then building these into the budget
process. As we move forward with future projects, how do we include signage in those efforts? So more to
come, but that is something that's on the top of our mind right now.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, you're still recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. To what degree will this affect security issues at these stations?
Obviously, you'll be having additional buses boarding and lighting. It creates additional questions around
being able to get to various-- I've encountered a number of security issues at this station and other stations
on 36. And I'm just wondering, to what degree was security considered when we've thought about
expanding this station in that way?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. So as we look at our policing "structur"-- structure, excuse
me-- and we have sectors, this is still part of that beat. I know we have Chief Martingano, on the call who
could further expound. Chief Martingano, are you available?
STEVEN MARTINGANO: I am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So if you could, sir, talk about the aspect of what you and your team are doing
relative to the various stations. I know I've heard you speak about this as we've tag-teamed this issue. So
if you could expound on how you assess. We do have internal committees whereby we look at various
things when there is any type of capital improvement. But I will yield the floor to you, Chief.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: So obviously, if we have the expansion, just like we have done at Boulder when
we expanded in our other areas, what we would do is we'd work with-- sorry, my earpiece fell out here-we'd work with Westminster Police Department-- obviously, with US 36 and Sheridan being under their
jurisdiction, working with them to provide additional assistance with us. We do have security officers that
are assigned to the BRT, which I know, obviously, the Flatiron Flyer is not really considered that, in theory,
but we do have security officers that are assigned to those routes. So we'll just expand those routes.
And then, obviously, we'll do video surveillance. We'll add more cameras based off of the enlargement of
the platform. So we'll put a whole bunch of different measures in place to make sure that we have a policing
strategy. And then we'll evaluate and adjust based off of how much ridership we have and any other issues
that occur.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Great. Thank you. Sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Ms. Vishwakarma, your hand was up. But I'm just curious, as part of the planning of
this project, I would assume that, given our focus on CPTED-type design, that that is also included in this
particular project.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Yes, it is. And I would also like to add that, as part of our standard project
protocols, we go through something called a Safety and Security Certification where we look at various
aspects. And we are adjusting closed-circuit television cameras on this project for better visibility.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome. Thank you so much. All right, shall we take a vote? Are there any no votes
on this matter, on this recommended action? I do not see any, so that will also pass, six ayes, one absent,
zero nos. Thank you very much. All right, y'all, we're doing good.
The sixth and final action, this is for the Bus Maintenance Facility Alternatives Analysis and National
Environmental Policy Act Study. This is for the Board of Directors to approve the summary Scope of Work,
SOW, for a solicitation, and to subsequently authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to
enter into a contract for consulting services to conduct facility alternatives analysis and environmental
planning work necessary to support the development of a new bus operations facility. Do we have a motion?
MATT LARSEN: Motion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is there a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I have the movant as Larsen, the second as Guissinger. And I would like
to ask Mr. Chris Quinn-- long time, no see-- Planning Project Manager, to present this item to the committee.
Welcome back. Good to see you.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you, Chair Guzman. And I just also want to include in the discussion Susan Wood.
She will be leading the environmental component of the proposed study, and she's also present in this
meeting. A couple of items that I just do want to point out from the report. For some time now, RTD's longrange plans have identified the need for a new bus operations facility some time in the future. And most
recently, that need was confirmed by the Reimagine RTD report in 2022 and then, most recently, again
confirmed in the Fleet and Facilities Transition Report completed last year.
So with that in mind, RTD staff is requesting Board approval for consultant services to assist with
determining a site for a new facility. And then, also, we'd be conducting the needed environmental
clearances required for such a facility if we were to request federal funding. And, lastly, we expect that this
effort would take approximately two years in time. And certainly open to any questions the Board might
have.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Directors. Well, that is resounding. Ms. Wood, it's nice to meet you. Thank you very
much for participating in this. I love NEPA. Any time it comes up, I think it's a good thing because we're
looking after the environment and committing to our resolution as a Board to make sure that we take care
of things. We do need this, and it looks like I bought just enough time for Director Catlin to raise her hand.
Please, Director Catlin, go ahead.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I apologize for having internet problems earlier. But I was going to say
I'm so glad that, Chris, you and Susan are going to be working on this. And I know that the NEPA process
will be in good hands. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Awesome. All right. Going once, going twice. Let's take a vote. Are there
any no votes on this action? I see none. That passes with six yes, one absent, zero no. Thank you so much.
It is 7:04. Being aware of time and needing to take a break for the transcriptionist, I am going to suggest, if
it is OK with the committee, that we take a, I believe it needs to be 10-minute, break commencing at 7:00- I have 7:05 on my clock, and we'll return at 7:15. And we will finish our discussion items and hopefully
boogie out of this meeting, all right? So let's suspend for right now, as of 7:05. We'll see you at 7:15. Thank
you.
It is 7:15 PM. We will resume the Finance and Planning Committee at this time. Thank you for allowing a
break. We are going to move on to Section E of our agenda, which are discussion items. We have two
included on tonight's agenda. The first item is for the 2026 to 2030 five-year financial forecast. And for this,
I would like to ask Kelly Mackey, our Chief Financial Officer, to present this item. Ms. Mackey, the floor is
yours.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Chair Guzman, I appreciate it. I also have with me today Todd Nikkel. He is
our Senior Manager of Budget. So today, we will take a look at the background of the Five-Year Financial
Forecast, also known as the FYFF. We'll share a visual overview of the financial planning process to make
sure you're familiar with it. We'll give you some key assumptions that are currently incorporated into the
forecast and an early draft of the FYFF for you to consider. Then we will discuss next steps and what to
expect for the FYFF and the 2026 budget recommended actions, as well as separate considerations for
potential future joint passenger rail service along the Front Range.
The FYFF is a five-year revenue and expenditure forecast that we update annually at this time of the year.
So recall that the prior year forecast was approved in September 2024. The FYFF is the basis for RTD's
budget preparation. Keep in mind that it is not an appropriation. The FYFF will be a basis for the 30-year
long-range financial plan that will be developed over the coming months.
We review the FYFF internally in detail and ensure it is aligned with RTD's Strategic Plan. It is tied closely
to the Transit Asset Management Plan. And then cross-functional teams go through a process to evaluate
and score funding requests with a number of variables. Additionally, business cases are created, evaluated,
and adjusted for funding needs and requests.
Here's a view of the financial planning process for 2025 and 2026, which shows that the bulk of the fiveyear financial forecast internal efforts conclude in August. The 2026 annual budget process kicks off in June
and concludes, typically, in November. The Asset Management Plan for 2027 through 2031 begins in the
spring and will carry into 2026. This will feed the updated five-year financial forecast next year. Overall, the
goal of this process is to align the right money in the right year for the right requests and for the right
reasons.
Oh, a couple animations. There we go. Let me click through these. Fares, sales and use tax, grants, and
contributions are projected at low single-digit growth when looking at the five-year Compound Annual
Growth Rate, or CAGR. This incorporates the Leeds economic growth forecast for sales and use tax that
was presented earlier in the year.

You may recall that Leeds accounts for uncertainties by utilizing the lower-bound forecast, noting that
headwinds include slow net migration to Colorado, high office vacancy, tariffs, federal restructuring, and
consumer confidence. So according to fiscal policy, this view incorporates grants that we know we will
receive and not potential future funding from grants not awarded yet, and recently passed Senate bills.
We have incorporated an assumption of 3% inflation. And remember that only a subset of materials, parts,
equipment, and technology are, or could be, affected by tariffs. And we've included a 3% assumption, or
$1.2 million, in 2026 for this.
The five-year financial forecast is tied closely to the Transit Asset Management Plan with continued
maturities. And, importantly, we have aimed to meet RTD's fiscal policy, incorporating reserves for three
months of operating expense, as well as net revenue coverage of 1.2 for debt repayment obligations in
both principal and interest. And remember that net revenue is revenue less operating expense. We are also
utilizing capital replacement funds and unrestricted funds according to fiscal policy.
So let's take a look now. We've created a number of scenarios for the five-year financial forecast. And this
is the primary scenario that we are presenting to you today, growing from $1.1 billion to $1.4 billion in 2030,
which is a 3.6% Compound Annual Growth Rate, CAGR.
Moving to operating expenses, we're able to increase these up to a 5% CAGR, from $823 million to
$1,049,000,000 in 2030 and keep our reserves as shown and the net revenue coverage at 1.2 and operating
reserve at three months, according to the fiscal policy. We have limited opportunity for expansion, capital,
and operating expense and are reviewing in detail our assumptions for service and balancing those
assumptions with the existing operating expense.
We are utilizing our capital replacement reserve and have identified $248 million, which is needed at yearend 2030, for timing of capital replacement required in 2031 and beyond. In this view, because of our limited
ability to fund any expansion, we believe it to be prudent to show this proposed view without future additions
to the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, or FISA.
Additionally, we are showing the utilization of these funds for two FasTracks projects. First is the intercity
buses for Flatirons Flyer, as well as, secondly, the FasTracks West Corridor state of good repair. And finally,
moving to the unrestricted reserve, we're showing essentially full utilization of these funds by 2030. And,
again, this is our current primary model that we will continue to update between now and the Board action
in September.
Next, this view is not-- not-- what we will use for the five-year financial forecast. This view is intended to
facilitate consideration around funding for potential future joint passenger rail service. If, for example, the
capital costs were to be $1.1 billion, as presented to the Board on February 25 by Diane Barrett and Tom
Rousakis, we will be looking at outside funding and funding alternatives for approximately $950 million in
collaboration with the joint rail planning efforts and Ernst & Young.
As you know, the cost of the project and the scope of the project continues to evolve, and we will have
better estimates as the year progresses and will incorporate it into the model accordingly. So two round
trips, for example, would cost considerably less than what is shown here for three round trips.
We are factoring in a potential $35 million per year in operating expense here for joint passenger rail service
starting in 2029, as well as some fare revenue. RTD's fiscal policy requires a 1.2 net revenue coverage

ratio, which limits our near-term additional debt capacity. And over the coming weeks and months, we will
explore our best options with our partners.
Again, we will not use this view for the five-year financial forecast, as these costs will not all fall to RTD.
We're providing you with this view to be prudent and offer perspective on a potential amount of sources of
funding that we are seeking in collaboration with our partners so that you are suitably aware.
Lastly, as you know, we will come back to you with the final five-Year financial forecast recommended
action in September for your approval. In October, we will bring the 2026 proposed budget for discussion
and will post for public viewing by October 15. And then we will bring the proposed budget to the Board for
recommended action in November. Now, Chair Guzman, I will turn it back to you for discussion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Directors, this is your opportunity. Let's go. Director O'Keefe, your hand
shot up first. You're on.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I know. I feel quick and spry. I know that this-- I don't want to go into a conversation
about peer agencies because I know it's tricky and probably inaccurate. But is that a standard coverage
ratio for transit agencies? Are we using that coverage ratio in our fiscal policy from any-- is it FTA guidance
or anything like that? I'm not arguing to get more risky. I'm just trying to understand what that coverage ratio
number comes from. Thanks.
KELLY MACKEY: Would you like me to take that, Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, please, Ms. Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: So I do not know what the other agencies are using, but this is prudent based on what is
needed for debt repayment. So this is a reasonable amount. Basically, it provides just slightly over what we
would need for our debt payments, principal, and interest. Obviously, 1.0 would be exactly what we need,
and 1.2 gives us a little extra leeway.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: OK, thank you. And I think you were the only one that could answer that question, but
it's nice that you gave everyone else a chance to go.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is that all that you needed, Director O'Keefe? All right, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Ms. Mackey. I think this is a good start. I do have a couple of
concerns and questions, first of all, the choice of $1.1 billion for joint passenger rail service. It's under
working draft five-year financial forecast. My feedback would be that it would be good to take this out of
here completely and maybe keep it as something in mind.
That number-- you said it was February 25. On March 1, the group that we have been part of and
participating with and working with filed with the legislature and the governor a document that said three
daily round trips would cost an estimated $83 million a year in the first year of operations, $32 million in
O&M, plus $51 million in debt service. If the state contributes $42 million annually, there's a gap of $41
million.
Now, I don't know that that covers all of the capital numbers, but I guess my point is, right now, those
numbers, are admittedly flowing. And we just signed an IGA to work with the rest of the state and the Front
Range Passenger Rail and others to try to come to real numbers with BNSF. And the $1.1 billion, where
it's split out $240, then $440 and $440, I just think it's confusing.

So my suggestion would be that those numbers-- clearly, those numbers aren't going to be real numbers
because, if nothing else, they include the capital project going from Longmont to Fort Collins, which we
can't spend money on. So I guess my suggestion-- and Ms. Johnson is working a lot with the state. I feel
like we're being partners with them. I find this takes us a place we don't need to go. So that would be my
suggestion. Any thoughts from either of you?
KELLY MACKEY: I'm happy to share first, if that works. Yes, of course, the final number will not be $1.1
billion, and I certainly do hope it is lower. I expect it to be. I was using the number that was presented to
the Board, obviously, in February and Director Benker has been sharing and circulating in her modeling.
It's the number I've seen most, I would say. But I do hope it's lower. So, of course, I understand. I just
wanted you to see that we are looking at numbers and doing many models and scenarios. So we are being
prudent with the numbers that we are getting from different sources.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So would you expect this to stay in the five-year forecast?
KELLY MACKEY: We will not include it in the September five-year financial forecast, no.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Looks like-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. I just wanted to further amplify what Ms. Mackey had put
forward. Recognizing that $1.1 billion has been in a public-facing document, we were using that to bring
forward some scenarios, keeping in mind that an intergovernmental agreement, in which you all authorized
me to engage in as relates to joint service, is the path forward. We have yet to know what the numbers are.
And this, more or less, was to generate a discussion, which we are having this evening.
Quite naturally, as we circle back and we have a better understanding what that is, we will be intentional.
But as we look at a five-year financial forecast, this is to ensure that there is some understanding of the
direction in which we're going, recognizing that we don't have true financial modeling for a myriad of different
reasons, considering that not one of the entities that are involved with the joint service basically have any
auspices over the right of way, and that is at the discretion of the railroad, which happens to be Burlington
North Santa Fe.
So I just wanted to ensure that we are having these discussions intentionally so we could bring the Board
along, recognizing the various contributions. Other aspects of that center around the FasTracks investment
savings account, which I know there'll be broader discussions as it relates to our overall financial health.
To the point that you raised, Director O'Keefe, regarding the 1.2 ratio, keeping in mind that not all transit
agencies basically have debt, that would not necessarily be a standard because when you see one transit
agency, you see one transit agency. And there's different elements surrounding that moving forward. So
this was done from the vantage point of what this agency's fiscal policy is. So thank you very much for the
opportunity to share those thoughts.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, did you have more?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do, thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a question on what Ms. Johnson said about our near-term additional debt
capacity. I thought we did not have FasTracks debt capacity at this point. But I'm going to go with a different
question first. The FISA, you said, we're showing money going out from the FISA throughout the five-year
term for intercity Flatiron Flyer buses and the West Corridor State of Good Repair. Can you explain that a
little more for us, please?
KELLY MACKEY: Yes, if I may turn it over to Todd Nikkel. Todd, would you like to dig in to that one?
TODD NIKKEL: Sure. Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager of Budget. The thinking along that line was that these
are projects or services that were funded originally by FasTracks, so it would be appropriate to draw against
the FISA to fund those vehicles and those repair projects on the West Corridor Rail Line.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And have we used that money to fund vehicles in the past, or for maintenance?
TODD NIKKEL: No, because this is the first time we've actually replaced any assets that were funded by
FasTracks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess my thought on this one is that you raise a good question. And it's one that-FISA has been created by the Board. And I see these suggestions. I guess this is a message to the Board
as much as anything is that I think this is a conversation the Board should have, whether these costs should
be coming out of FISA. I think our fiscal policy talks about additional service or something along those lines.
I'd have to go back to look at it.
But that would be my thought on the FISA. Again, I feel like we're being good partners with the state. And
in looking at the Northwest Corridor and the North Line, it's not just being good partners. We're required by
statute to work with them and prioritize those two lines. I know that raises a lot of concerns. I have concerns,
as well. We need to see what the costs are, what the ridership is, all of those things.
But while we're doing that, I think we need to consider whether we're meeting our statutory obligations and
being good partners if we're taking the money out of the FISA in this way. So conversation, potentially, to
be had.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: You said you had a question about additional debt capacity. Did you want to ask that
now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, Sure. I didn't want to run over my number of questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That was for recommended action, which is the work we have to get done, and this
is discussion, so I think we can be a little more liberal here. But I'd still like to try and wrap it up. So go for
it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we continue to have that capacity in FasTracks?
KELLY MACKEY: I'm happy to take that. It is very-LYNN GUISSINGER: I-- I'm sorry. Go ahead.
KELLY MACKEY: It's very limited, a very, very small amount-- nothing meaningful that we could do anything
meaningful with. Would you like to add anything, CEO Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, CFO Mackey. So recognizing the question that was posed,
Director Guissinger, CFO Mackey talked about that amount. It's been at around $3 million, which would not
put us in a place where we could do a lot with moving forward. So while there's been questions about
whether or not if there's capacity, $3 million may be a lot to me in my personal life, but as a transit executive,
that, more or less, is not anything that we could do any tangible work with moving forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just look at that fiscal policy about 1.2 net revenue coverage. Again, it's something,
maybe, the Board needs to look at. Am I right in that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Are you asking that of me? Potentially. It's up to the Board, as you all set that policy
with recommendations from our subject matter experts that we have here, such as our CFO. But that would
be up to this Board's consideration, with strong recommendations from staff. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's it for now. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Benker, Vice Chair Benker, you are next.
KAREN BENKER: OK, thank you. First of all, I do concur with what Director Guissinger was saying. I think
we need to talk about what kinds of expenditures are coming out of FISA, and we need to have a discussion
as to how money can go back into FISA. And maybe we could dig into that sometime in September.
With regard to your joint rail scenario, the $1.2 billion, since there's no revenue matched in there, but there's
an assumption on the expenditures, I'm starting to think, as we get closer-- you don't have to do this now,
but as the Board gets closer to a decision-- I think what might be good, and think about it, CFO Mackey, is
that maybe we need a multiyear revenue plan. Because, clearly, we'd be doing COPs-- I don't know if it
would all be done in one large chunk going to the bond market or if it would be done in smaller pieces-- and
then adding in revenue coming in from the state grants.
It just seems there's a lot of moving pieces, and it's not all going to happen in one fiscal year. So I'm thinking
if you could, at some point, put together a five-year, shall we say, forecast if the Board says yes to going
forward with Northwest Rail, something so we know what expenditures would hit and what revenue will
come in per fiscal year.
The other thing that I'd like to ask you questions about is your revenue assumptions on your five-year plan.
So you've got a 2% increase on fare revenue and a minus, let's say, 13% on investment income. Could you
speak to those two and how you came up with those kinds of assumptions?
KELLY MACKEY: Yes. If I may actually turn it to Todd. Todd, would you like to take that question?
TODD NIKKEL: Sure. So the fare revenue, we just assumed a slight increase each year. It wasn't based
on any hard forecasts we've done. We have had further discussions, so I think we can fine tune that. But
it's such a small portion of our revenue that I think it would have very little effect on the overall financial
plan. But we have been doing some talking about forecasting that a little bit better.
In terms of the investment income, at this stage, since it's a draft, it was really we're using our reserves as
we go, so we'll have less funds to invest. Brenden Morgan, our Senior Manager of Debt and Investments,
did look at that just a few days ago, I think late last week, and gave me some updated interest income
numbers that he believes, based on those reserves that we are showing in this draft, what we'd be able to
generate.

So we'll be updating that. It's a little bit higher. But, again, I don't think it's enough to make a huge impact
on our overall financial situation. What it would do is probably allow us to reduce our expenditures and our
operating expenses a little bit less than what we are projecting right now. But that will all be part of the
version that we ask the Board to adopt in September. As CFO Mackey said, this is an early draft, so we
have a lot of work yet to be done. And we will be fine tuning those things and then sharing those updated
figures with the Board in September.
KAREN BENKER: OK. Well, a couple of comments real quick. I'm hoping on the fare revenue-- and I know
this is going to be probably more of a Board decision-- I'm hoping we're going to be a little bit more
aggressive in raising our ridership numbers. So if our ridership numbers are going to be going up, I would
certainly hope our fare revenue would go up. Plus, we need to start thinking about marketing EcoPasses
again.
With regard to the investment income, I realize that when we say, for example, $125 million that we might
be appropriating in two weeks, we're not going to be spending the $125 million day one. It's going to be
sitting in an investment fund until we need the money and it's drawn down. So I'm just assuming that we
have a lot of capital projects out there that are in the same situation where we appropriate a lump sum in
one year, and then it's going to be sitting in, hopefully, an investment fund, drawing some additional revenue
while we're waiting to make that purchase year by year.
So I'm hoping that our investment income will go up. And even though you may be saying, or folks may be
saying, that these are small dollar amounts, I guess I don't have that viewpoint. If we can take in another
$5 million here, $7 million there, $2 million here, let's do it. And you add that all together and you might be
able to build a rail station. So I hope that we go after every dollar that's possible to be out there and add it
to our needs because we certainly will find ways to spend it. But thank you.
By the way, this is a great starter. I love looking at these revenue estimates. And by the way, Kelly, I did
sign up for Jamie Dimon's talk tomorrow, so we'll see what he has to say, so thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, you are next.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Guzman. So this is phenomenally interesting stuff. I know one of
the things that's come up repeatedly over the last few months in conversations is the concerns over longterm, as in into the 2030s, fiscal health. I also have heard a number of times, and correct me if I'm wrong,
that right now, we are spending more on FasTracks than the FasTracks revenue brings in. So we're
essentially funding FasTracks with the original bond money.
And so my question is, just operating under what we'll call the no train version of the five-year financial
forecast, will we, in 2030, be at a point where we will be able to run our regular service the way that we
have planned to, the way we are today, run FasTracks, and pay for the depreciation, the long-term
maintenance costs, that we expect to need to? Will we be in a structural deficit by 2030, according to this
financial forecast?
KELLY MACKEY: I'll add some comments, and then CEO Johnson or Mr. Nikkel, if you would like to add,
please, go ahead. I would say getting there in 2030 is not easy, for sure. We do have to make some difficult
decisions that we're balancing through. There's a number of requests that have come in, obviously, for
expansion needs that we currently are not able to fund. So to a limited extent, I would say, probably yes,
based on what I have seen. Mr. Nikkel, would you like to add anything?

TODD NIKKEL: No.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So, keeping in mind the whole premise behind the organization is to deliver mass
transit services, so we have to be prudent. We do have a fiduciary responsibility to ensure that our fiscal
health is in a state of good health as we move forward. And, quite naturally, when we look at our five-year
financial forecast, that takes us out to 2030. But then, beyond that, as we look at asset renewal, fleet
replacement, as we heard in a previous item, as we look at the potential of new facilities, quite naturally,
because we have to have facilities before we can support newer technologies with our rolling stock, that is
incredibly important.
And with anything that we do from an expansion vantage point, as our Chair can attest, when I am engaging
with our partners with Joint Service, I constantly bring up the investment in the state of good repair.
Because, oftentimes, when we're talking about capital investments, that may not rise to the level where
there are discussions because day-to-day maintenance is different from the asset renewal to ensure the
investment in that long-range asset as we move forward.
So there's a lot of unknown variables. I commend our finance staff for being prudent as we move forward.
As all of you know, we have great credit ratings. We do not want to jeopardize that as we move forward
because all of us collectively have that fiduciary responsibility. And that's going to be first and foremost as
we proceed, from a staff perspective.
And I would be certain that the Board would support us in that effort because, recognizing we don't know
what tomorrow brings or the tomorrows to come, we want to ensure that we're not in a precarious position
where we are making adjustments relative to any reduction in force or anything else relative to our core
business. So thank you very much for the opportunity to add my comments.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So is it a fair read of this financial forecast that, essentially, under these
circumstances, we do not have the money to complete all of the FasTracks projects that are currently
outstanding? So there's no pathway within this long-term budget to do the Southwest Rail extension, the L
Line, Northwest Rail. So essentially, what we should be reading this as is, you are going to be making
trade-offs between these projects. You can't have everything.
KELLY MACKEY: That is correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I was waiting for this one all night. So first I just want to say thank you
to Director Guissinger and our CFO for pointing out that-- and our GM/CEO-- that we don't have additional
FasTracks at capacity. I just wanted to add, the more that we act like we have money that we don't have,
the higher the public's expectations become.
And I think that was very evident a year and a year and a half ago, where people felt like we were hiding
money-- or maybe even recently, where people felt like we were hiding money under a rock we just didn't

want to spend on rail projects. And I think just even putting that out there sets us up to overpromise,
underdeliver. But it erodes the public trust.
I also don't think a line item forecast for the Front Range Passenger Rail is appropriate. And I would actually
ask it be struck entirely because it's not only a soft number. This is not aligned with how we've typically
approached financial forecasting, at least not without consequences we've come to regret, if you think about
FasTracks.
But the five-year financial forecast is supposed to be our guiding light. And the Board passes it in that same
manner. An alternate analysis might be appropriate to live somewhere else, just as we traditionally have,
with potential rail projects. I don't think it belongs here. And, again, I just want to highlight that this document
replaced our mid-term financial plan, and we wouldn't have seen something like that there.
I did want to pivot, then, just make a comment/request regarding the Flatiron Fire Fund-- Flyer, excuse me- Fund. I personally think it's reasonable to draw from the FISA because the FF was a FasTracks creation,
at least if we're going to keep funding the FISA the way that we currently do. But what I'd personally like
us-- I would like for us to stop diverting bus and paratransit funds into the FISA and put that back where it
belongs, which is the base.
And that leads me to my final point, which is a request. I think we need to take a comprehensive look at the
FISA, how it's funded, how it's used. It's not a sacred cow. It's up for discussion. And if I look back to Board
records, I don't think we've had a meaningful, comprehensive conversation about the future of the FISA
and its relation to FasTracks in at least four years. It predates me. I think it was 2019, maybe 2020.
And I think that's a disservice. It's a disservice to us as a Board, as a Board community, and to our
constituents. So while that might be a difficult conversation and, certainly, a political one-- this is just me
expressing my opinion-- I think avoiding it at this point would just be irresponsible. Folks have a lot of
expectations, on and off the Board, as to how we're going to spend those dollars and how we're going to
continue to fund-- it's called an account, but it's really a line item in an Excel file-- but how we're going to
fund it.
And so Finance Chair Guzman, I hate to put you on the spot, but maybe that's something you can squeeze
into your work plan. It seems like it'd coincide with our fiscal policy update. I leave it up to you. My general
preference is that we have a special Board retreat because I think this is a whole Board manner, but I have
less pull in that area. So I'm going to Red Rover that one over to you, friend, and hope you can work some
magic in your calendar. It's something several of us have raised over the last couple of years. And I think
this committee is more than appropriate to take it up. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Just on that note, I have talked with
GM CEO Johnson, actually today, about potentially having a future study session on the FISA itself later
down this year. So I will have conversations because I do believe this is a full Board conversation. I think it
should be specific for a study session itself, but we can have communication, as well, Committee Chair
Guzman, as we go down the line. So just wanted to throw that out there.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. Thank you for the comments. I agree we need to have a
conversation about the FISA account. I think former Finance Committee Chair Tisdale would often say,
what the Board giveth, the Board can taketh away. And we need to just have a conversation about it. I'm

not trying to take anything away from anybody, but I do have concerns when we're putting so many
resources into FISA that could be put to good use in other places, or invested, where we're looking at
drawing down investments and not being able to create that money that Director Benker is watchful of. So
yeah, let's have that conversation. I think it's good.
With respect to the five-year financial forecast, I would like to reiterate what I heard and make sure that I
heard it well. So Ms. Mackey, I'm going to be in parlance with you on this. Page 53 of our packet is the
working draft of the five-year financial forecast primary scenario. And that is the one that we should be
looking at intentionally because that is where we are at.
As an academic exercise, page number 54, which is an alternative scenario and includes the joint
passenger rail service assumptions, which we know are not correct at this point, is simply that, an academic
exercise to look at what is possible if those numbers were to align based on what we have heard as a full
body and what was presented. But that is not the working draft that will be coming back to this committee
or to the Board in September. And so I would just redirect everybody's attention to packet page 53, which
is the primary scenario. And that's the one we want to focus on.
I am still greatly concerned about 2030. Erik-- why can't I think of his last name? Somebody help me out
here.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Davidson.
MATT LARSEN: Davidson.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Erik Davidson, thank you. [LAUGHS] He was always, always, discussing this matter
for 2030. And he knew it better than anybody I know, maybe with the exception of our CFOs, where we
would end up at by 2030. And so I think it's something that we really do need to consider in terms of how
we are planning things out.
And while we are planning, I think Director Nicholson brought up a good point, something that's going on
at the state level, something that's going on everywhere. What we say yes to on one matter means we say
no on something else. And so if we say yes and we build a train and we do all the shiny new projects, what
are we saying no to? And we have fought really, really hard under the tenure of our General Manager/CEO
to not be the agency of no and to try and make everything work.
And so, in the wash, how do we protect the agency and continue to serve the customers if the focus is on
increasing service, if the focus is not cutting back? We worked really hard to reduce our fares, not having
to increase those numbers and make it accessible to everybody. There's a lot of tactics and work that have
gone into this, from previous boards through my time on the Board and that will hopefully continue past my
time on the Board. But it is something that we need to be considerate of, looking even just five years into
the future, where we will end up.
With that, I'll end my comments. Thank you for the presentation, Ms. Mackey. I do appreciate having some
idea of what we are looking at. And with respect to one comment that GM/CEO Johnson said, I am going
to continue to harp-- harp-- and harp loudly about state of good repair and asset management, no matter
what we do. Because if we are going to fund anything by participation of an IGA or anything that we're doing
on our own, if we can't take care of it, why are we even considering building it in the first place?

If it's done well, it should be easy to take care of. But I can't imagine authorizing any expenditure if we don't
have a way to take care of it after we've built it or created it. With that, Director O'Keefe, you have your
hand up, and I will turn to you.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yeah, sorry. I just wanted to add one bit of commentary on the FISA account and the
revenues from the increment of sales tax that were from the FasTracks vote. I think we need to be careful
about just comingling everything. The voters trusted us with a project. It was overpromised and
underfunded. There's no question about that.
But going forward, there may be votes where we ask the public for their trust again with additional revenue.
And if we are comingling without recognizing the purpose of that vote, which I would argue passed because
the outer districts were promised something that they probably aren't going to get now, I think we get-- we
just need to recognize and respect that vote that people made and not just mash stuff together, either
through conversation or in budget practice.
That's the one plea I'd have. Yes, we're going to end up probably doing something like that on the last
district in the FasTracks line. I've come to grips with that, and I'm talking to our elected officials about it. But
I just-- something I ask, that we don't just make an easy jump with revenues without at least acknowledging
that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Nicholson, one more, and then we do have one more discussion
item we need to move on to.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. No, I was just going to piggyback on what Patrick said and point out that, when
voters voted on the original FasTracks-- or sorry, voted on the original RTD revenue-- back in the '70s they
were also authorizing-- we were also making a specific promise. And so when we're taking money away
from that revenue to fund something that is not buses, there is a promise there, as well.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Well, I'm glad we have CFO Mackey to help us keep our accounting in order. I
appreciate it, and I trust you will guide us through to a great recommended action in September. Thank
you, everybody, for the discussion on that matter.
The second item is for the RTD real property overview. This is a committee-directed action. Thank you for
working with us. We have delayed this conversation, so I'm glad that we are bringing it up now. I would like
to ask Carmelita Cervantes, Manager of Real Property, to present this item. Carmelita, welcome to Finance
and Planning. It's nice to meet you. The floor is yours.
CARMELITA CERVANTES: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, just before handing the floor to Ms. Cervantes, just wanted to clarify,
this isn't an action. We are just merely having a discussion item at the Board committee's request.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It was the decision of this committee to have this as a discussion item. Sorry. I
misstated it. But yes, it came from the committee.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, very clear. Thank you very much, sir. I just wanted to ensure that everybody knew
we weren't seeking any action. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Ms. Cervantes, the floor is yours, ma'am.

CARMELITA CERVANTES: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. Good evening, Chairman Guzman and
committee members. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today. My name is Carmelita
Cervantes. I'm the Manager of Real Property. Today, I want to share the story behind RTD's real property,
what we own, why we own it, and the laws and responsibilities that guide how we manage these public
assets.
At RTD, making lives better through connection is more than just a tagline. It's defines our purpose. It's our
responsibility not just to operate buses and trains but to be stewards of every inch of land entrusted to us
by the public. Our story starts with the why. Why did RTD need to acquire-DEBRA JOHNSON: Ms. Cervantes, we don't see your presentation.
CARMELITA CERVANTES: Oh, sorry. Let me go back.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: There we go.
CARMELITA CERVANTES: OK, sorry about that, I thought I pressed it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No worries. And, Ms. Cervantes, you can just advance to the slide that has the
purpose.
CARMELITA CERVANTES: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you ma'am.
CARMELITA CERVANTES: You're welcome. Let's start this over. OK. My name is Carmelita Cervantes. I
am the Manager of Real Property. Today, I want to share the story behind RTD's real property, what we
own, why we own it, and the laws and responsibilities that guide how we manage these public assets. At
RTD, making lives better through connections is more than just a tagline. It defines our purpose. It's our
responsibility not just to operate buses and trains but to be stewards of every inch of land entrusted to us
by the public.
Our story starts with the why. Why did RTD need to acquire property in the first place? Our service area
covers 2,345 square miles, crossing 40 municipalities and six counties. To deliver transit at this scale, RTD
needed the land to build the infrastructure that makes mobility possible.
This includes rail corridors like the N Line; Park-n-Rides and transfer centers that help connect
neighborhoods to regional services; maintenance facilities that keep our buses and trains operating; utility
corridors, sidewalks, drainage infrastructures-- what I call the invisible systems that support our network
behind the scenes. Take, for example, the sidewalks and the bike lanes around stations like Central Park
or Peoria. These connections make it easier for people to get to transit and for transit to connect them to
opportunity.
But acquiring land comes with certain serious responsibilities. At the state level, RTD operates under the
RTD Act, Colorado Revised Statute Title 32, Article 9, which grants us the authority to build and operate
transit system and, when necessary, to use eminent domain for public use. Additionally, Board Resolution
15, Series of 2015, requires any sale, transfer, or long-term lease of real property no longer needed for
transit purposes must come before this Board for approval. This ensures transparency and maintains
oversight of the public assets.

At the federal level, FTA Circular 5010.1D establishes strict processes for disposing of federally funded
properties. We must identify surplus properties, conduct appraisals, obtain FTA concurrence before any
sale, follow competitive market requirements, reimburse the federal share at fair market value. We also
follow the Uniform Relocation Act, which guarantees fairness and dignity when individuals or businesses
are displaced due to property acquisitions. For example, in Commerce City, we partnered with the local
government to assist businesses that needed to relocate because of an acquisition.
The next two slides list common definitions, which you can reference on pages 64 and 65 of your Board
packet. Understanding our property starts with knowing the different types of parcels we manage. To bring
this to light, I will help you imagine a typical rider's journey. They start at a Park-n-Ride, perhaps in
Westminster, an essential connection point between home and transit. From there, they board a station
equipped with platforms, lighting, signage, and accessibility features. Their train moves along the right of
way, land that is essential for rail service but largely invisible to the public.
Along the route, they pass a facility where operators begin their shifts and vehicles are serviced. And
scattered throughout are the vacant or miscellaneous parcels, smaller or uniquely shaped properties that
will require careful management. Each property, whether prominent or hidden, plays a role in how we move
people across the region.
Out of the 900 parcels RTD owns, 59 are currently classified as vacant. But vacant doesn't mean useless.
It means we must carefully assess the potential for each parcel. We evaluate each property to determine
whether it might serve future transit needs, support community uses, or be suitable for development. On
pages 71 through 104 of your Board packet, you can find details on the list of properties and maps to
reference for future content.
With that said, there are limitations. Some parcels are too small or oddly shaped. Others lack critical
infrastructure like sewer or electrical. Some have environmental concerns, such as needing soil
remediation. And zoning restrictions or community pushback can further complicate potential reuse.
For example, a triangular parcel in Commerce City is landlocked between a rail corridor and a drainage
canal, not ideal for transit or development. In each case, we must ask, does this asset help us move people
better now or in the future? Are you honoring our responsibility as stewards of the public trust? Our
disposition strategy includes options like competitive sales, direct sales to an adjacent owner, community
use transfers, or temporary leases. Every decision is made in compliance with both FTA requirements and
RTD policy.
Federal requirements add another layer of stewardship. About 60% of our real estate was purchased with
federal funds, meaning we are obligated to maintain continuing control for transit purposes. If we determine
a property is no longer needed, we must follow FTA's disposition process and potentially return a portion
of those federal funds. This ensures our compliance in not just operational but also financially, protecting
public investment.
Beyond ownership and compliance, we actively collaborate with the community. Our coordination takes the
form of use permits, rights of entry, licenses, strategic partnerships. We worked with CDOT on projects like
State Highway 119 BRT, with X-- excuse me-- with educational institutions like the University of Colorado
at Anschutz and with public safety agencies to ensure access during expansion. One meaningful example
is in Commerce City, where RTD partnered with a nonprofit to set up a food bank on Park-n-Ride property,
helping hundreds of families in a food desert, with encouragement to take RTD transit to the site.

In closing, RTD's real property story is about much more than land. It's about service, it's about connection,
and it's about accountability. Our decisions are guided by two commitments. We must always focus on
moving people better, and we must always act as responsible stewards of public assets. Thank you for
your time. I welcome any questions from the committee, with Jyotsna here to assist in the discussion. Thank
you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Thank you so much. If you wouldn't mind pulling down the presentation, we
will continue with questions from directors. Thank you so much. Directors, do you have any questions or
comments on this matter? Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I saw that look.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No, I was just catching up because my screen changed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: [LAUGHS] It's OK. If you could clarify for me, are we also going-- perhaps you
answered this question-- are we also going to get the annual report, the spreadsheet, of all the property
transactions this year? If so, do you know-- or that might be a question for our General Manager and CEO.
But I know it's part of Board policy, and I thought it might come through this committee this year.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Also, I did want to say I really appreciated the presentation. I'm sorry. I should have
started with that. I just need some clarification on what else, what other information, we'll receive before the
year is out. Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very kindly for the question relative to the Board authorization, relative
to the report. Keeping in mind what Ms. Cervantes has presented, RTD hasn't had any disposition relative
to a report, for all intents and purposes, as I researched this with the team. Traditionally, we have brought
forward when we have done something with the property.
Recognizing we're no longer in the FasTracks build-out mode, it's my understanding, as related to the
report, we would have been providing something saying no activity has occurred-- or no activity had ensued.
Excuse my word choice there. Going forward, we have been keeping this body apprised. So with that, I will
yield the floor.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I ask a follow-up, Mr. Chair?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And thank you, Madam CEO Johnson, for that. I could be mistaken. I
had thought, based on old documents, that that would also include rental space, or any space that we're
renting or leasing that we own, so whether it's big or small. Is that something that-- maybe it's a memo you
could circle back with us on. I could be wrong and just need to be brought up to speed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So, basically, relative to the resolution language-- for reference, it states, "The
General Manager and CEO shall provide an annual report to the Board summarizing all permanent property
interests granted to third parties during the prior year, including location of the property, type of interest
granted, and value received." There's no permanent property interest dispositions to report.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Does that satisfy your question, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think it does. I think there are two separate resolutions on this topic, so I'll just follow
up with our General Manager after I take a look. But thank you for granting me the space and time. And
thank you, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. I know you and I have a one on one scheduled
on Monday, so happy to engage on that topic at that time if it works for you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, thank you. Perfect.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Excuse me. So this was fascinating to me. It's something I've
wondered about for-- and I apologize, my camera was off-- I've wondered about for a couple months now,
which is just an understanding of where our parcels are and everything and what we're not using them for.
One of them that has been vacant for a few years now is what is affectionately known as the Wu Tang
Commemorative Gravel Pit next to the Civic Center Station that will hopefully be becoming pickleball courts
in the mid to near future.
The reason I say all of that is when we think about these sorts of projects, to what degree are uses similar
to that? We've talked a lot about housing. We passed our TOD policy. But beyond that, I would assume
there are a lot of these sorts of things that-- I know we're converting one of the rail right of ways into a trail
in coordination with, I think, Erie. But how much visibility have we given to municipalities and organizations,
businesses nearby, for temporary usage of our vacant properties for things like, again, what may happen,
hopefully, with the pickleball courts?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. And I appreciate the question, Secretary Nicholson. If
anything, I believe our engagement-- at least, I could speak during the course of my tenure, quite naturally- with the engagement we have, for instance, with the City and County of Denver or the trail at Erie, those
came about as we work in tandem with municipal staff, recognizing that there's a potential to bridge the gap
in reference to various recreational activities. So keeping in mind when we look at survey results, when
RTD used to be classified as the agency of no, we're now focusing on the agency of let's see what we can
do.
So, for all intents and purposes, we engage in those discussions during recurring meetings that we have at
staff. I know I've been engaged. This came to fruition with the former Deputy Chief of Staff in the previous
mayoral administration. Took some time to get there, as we were looking to do something. And the city
really took the lead on this, recognizing some other aspects. But I would say that we engage on this front

through staff engagements. When I say that, I mean recurring meetings and meetings that I partake in
whereby we are thinking outside of the box about what we can do.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. Go ahead, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. And so are there any other parcels that have been identified in
conversations with cities, counties, et cetera, as a good potential for these types of developments? Are
there any that we've identified internally as, hey, maybe we should talk to Adams County about this kind of
thing? This is a parcel that we're not using. I know we've got some land in downtown Jeffco that could be
used for a station in 20 years that is sitting empty right now. So just curious if there's anything else that has
been looked at.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would like to circle back on that because we have a myriad of different staff that
engage at different levels throughout the organization. And in the interest of full transparency, those things
are brought to my attention when staff has done their due diligence, and it's percolated up.
And so I would hate to say that, no, we have not engaged without having had the opportunity to engage
with those, perhaps, in Service Development or long-range planning or with our communications
engagement staff. So happy to circle back with some formal correspondence to the full body as relates to
that. You could give us a couple of weeks in which to do so. Be more than happy to lean into that.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can you hear me? I apologize.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: You're great.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm connecting via my phone hotspot. So we have no internet here. Director Nicholson, I
know that, in my area, or we worked with a developer to utilize our underutilized Park-n-Ride spot on Ken
Caryl for staging of construction vehicles and using our right of way for transmission of soil and everything
else that was being transmitted for a development. And we negotiated with them for a use permit.
And at one time, there was thought that the library would want to try and use some of that Park-n-Ride for
their purposes for a new facility that fell through because they selected another site. But I know that those
underutilized Park-n-Ride facilities have been thought of for other uses and negotiated as such. So I just
wanted to say that it's been my experience that we've had some successful negotiations for the use of those
properties. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome. Thank you. Just to point out, as well, in the last couple of years that I've
been on the Board, we have worked with the City and County of Denver to long-term lease out the property
that the Hattie McDaniel will be built and constructed on as part of our eTOD policy. We just went through
the Central Park matter.

But I also seem to recall, and I don't know-- Ms. Johnson, maybe you can help me out here-- the Civic
Center station area we lease, we do not own outright. Is that correct? That's owned by another entity, but
we have an agreement with them to do that property. So even with the pickleball courts that are being put
on that drainage property, that's not a disposition of real estate that came from RTD. That was an
agreement, maybe through our lease, but we don't own that property.
And so we need to be careful when we speak about projects like that because that is not an RTD matter. I
believe that is correct, but I could be wrong. And I'm getting a head nod. So I just want to make sure that
we're talking about the same thing. The committee did ask for a real estate-- Ms. Cervantes, thank you for
the presentation. I really do appreciate it.
Something that I brought up for consideration earlier was that it would be really nice, and I think maybe if
it's possible-- and I know that this has been a lot of work-- was to see it on a map. It's really hard in that
2,374 square-foot area, the whole area, to figure out where some of these parcels are.
And I know that's maybe reaching for the stars in some ways. It's not something that needs to happen
immediately. But it would certainly be helpful to look and see where we have some of those additional real
estate that is unused, the real property parcels that are unused, or where they're referred to on here.
Because the grid is awesome, and it's good to see what we have, but I have no idea how to make that real
in my head. And so that could be helpful going forward. Madam CEO?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman, and appreciate that. And as I
shared it with you, when we had our prebrief, I would work with staff. Keeping in mind 2,345 square miles,
very, very difficult as we look at GIS and mapping for this body, perhaps, to dig in and understand. And I
don't mean that in a negative way, as if you guys can't comprehend, but I'm saying it's so expansive because
we have such a large service area.
Perhaps we can explore a way in which we could set up-- and I can talk offline about this with you-- but
perhaps individuals could come in, and we can orient you all and do that in such a way whereby we can
showcase that because it's just challenging with the size of this district. So I just wanted to manage
expectations in considering the discussion that we had in the near term, staff oriented by corridors relative
to the developments that have occurred, especially as we think about the acquisitions that we have done
utilizing federal dollars. So that's something we could work out, but it would be an extensive amount of
work, I found out. So thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Well, I think anything would help, but I appreciate it. Let's work on it together and
see what we can do. It might just be helpful. Director Nicholson, your hand is up again.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, yes. I actually just wanted to-- you brought up a really good point, Chair
Guzman, which is, how do we account for-- because my understanding is, with the Civic Center property,
is that it's a long-term lease. We've had it for years, and we're going to have it for years again. And the
lease is for the entire property, including the Civic Center Station.
How do we account for those types of long-term ground leases compared to real property? Because if we
have a 99-year lease on something, and it's sitting there vacant, we should probably be asking the same
sorts of questions about its usage as we would if we owned it. You know what I mean? And we may want
to sublease it. So how is that accounted for differently than the conversation that we had today? Are there
a bunch of vacant leased properties that we have for the next 50 years or whatever?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: That may be an entirely separate conversation not germane to this discussion item.
So I'm going to take that one off, and I will follow up with you with the General Manager, if that's OK. But
it's a good question. All right, are there any other questions or comments on this matter? I'm seeing the
head nods. Perfect. All right, thank you so much for the participation. Ms. Cervantes, again, thank you for
your presentation to the Board. I appreciate you being here and staying late with us tonight.
CARMELITA CERVANTES: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And we will welcome you back any old time. You just come on and say hello.
CARMELITA CERVANTES: OK. [LAUGHS]
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Let's move on to other matters. Do any Directors have other matters to discuss at this
time? I don't see any hands raised. I am going to bring up one other matter for the members of the Executive
Committee that are also on this one. Last month and this month, we've had quite a few contracts come
through here that potentially could have been handled without coming to the Board. There was little
discussion, and they moved directly to the body for things like hoists or HVAC units and the like.
I'm going to offer a suggestion to review the delegation of authority to our General Manager and CEO for
such matters. We may be at a place where, as evidenced by these last couple of meetings on Finance and
Planning, where it would be appropriate to delegate those responsibilities to the General Manager and
CEO.
It takes 45 minutes for us to get through it as a committee without much discussion, and that's once the
work has been done to bring it forward by staff. So there's probably quite a few hours behind each of the
discussion items and the recommended actions that came forward over the last couple of months.
So with respect to trusting our General Manager/CEO to do the work of the agency and oversee some of
those, it might be a good time to revisit those and understand why we set the limits the way we did and if
we need to make adjustments. I'm not suggesting an adjustment be made unless it's prudent. But in this
case, I think it could save the Board quite a bit of time if we simply trust our General Manager and CEO to
do so.
That's the only thing that I have and to wish our General Manager/CEO, Debra Johnson, a very, very happy
birthday. Thank you so much for all of your hard work and service, and I appreciate you. We all do. The
work that you've done is tremendous, and you are an amazing individual who just makes things happen.
And I really do appreciate that. Director Nicholson, your hand is raised. Do you have another matter to
discuss?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I wanted to comment very quickly on yours and say that I don't always agree with
Chair Guzman, but in this case, on both counts, he's exactly right. So happy birthday, Director-- GM/CEO,
there we go-- Johnson. And I do hope we on the Executive Committee take up that exact issue for that
exact reason.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, thank you very kindly for those birthday wishes. Where else I rather be than
spending it on a Tuesday night with all of you?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Well, we gonna land this plane real quick so that you can spend it wherever you would
like to be. But it's been nice to spend some time with you today. Our next meeting date for the Finance and
Planning Committee is September 9, 2025.

Just as a reminder to the public, the Board does not hold any meetings during the month of August, so the
next Finance and Planning Committee meeting will be scheduled for Tuesday, September 9. At that
meeting, we will act on the five-year fiscal financial forecast. So between now and then, Directors, submit
your comments if you missed them tonight.
We will look at a fair equity analysis related to open payments and expanded fair purchasing opportunities.
Director Nicholson, that's a nod for you. We are also set to discuss the following-- the 2026 Fiscal Policy,
the 2026 Investment Policy, the status of certain major capital improvement projects, and the farebox
recovery opportunities that Director Benker brought up earlier.
The latter two discussion items are items specifically requested by this committee when we created our
work plan for the year. We are getting to them. Thank you for your patience. Thank you, staff, for the hard
work and dedicated hours to helping us understand what we have requested and bringing those to present.
We may also have another contract that will come forward at that time. That was supposed to be considered
tonight, but we moved it because we needed to get additional information. But that will be determined in
the future. So we are good. Last chance. Don't see any hands raised. Thank you so much. We shall adjourn
this meeting at 8:28 PM. Thank you so much. Have a good night.

