Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 24, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
David Ayala – Service and Cleaning – 24 years
Bill Cashman – General Repair Mechanic – 17 years
Kevin Flageolle – Mechanic – 28 years
Terrell M. James – Street Supervisor – 23 years
Larry Perkins – Master Mechanic – 39 years
Victor Petersen – General Repair Mechanic – 18 years
John S. Shaver – Signal & Traction Power Maintainer – 32 years
Frank Snell – General Repair Mechanic – 28 years
Larry Sorget – Mechanic – 30 years
Larry D. Vogt – Bus Operator Instructor – 24 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director

Pension Committee – Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Chair's Report

IX.

General Manager's Report

X.

Unanimous Consent

XI.

Recommended Action
A.

Award of Access-a-Ride Service Contracts

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into contracts with MV
Transportation, Transdev, and Via Mobility Services for the provision of Access-a-Ride
service using dedicated vehicles. These contracts are for three years, with two one-year
options for a total of 5-years, for a 5-year cost of $175,341,294.00. In addition, RTD will
reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be $20,715,915.00
for the total 5-year term. The total 5-year not-to-exceed amount for Access-a-Ride
dedicated-vehicle service and fuel is $196,057,209.00.
It is further recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into contracts
with MV Transportation and Transdev for the provision of Access-a-Ride service using
non-dedicated (contractor provided) vehicles. These contracts are for three years, with
two one-year options for a total of 5-years, at a not-to-exceed 5-year cost of
$38,918,913.00. Fuel for the non-dedicated vehicle contracts is included in the service
contract price. These recommendations represent the most responsive and responsible
proposals received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 16-DH-047 (dedicated
vehicle) and 16-DH-046 (non-dedicated vehicle) to provide Access-a-Ride Service. The
contracts to provide this service are scheduled to be effective April 1, 2017.
B.

Access-a-Ride Travel Training Project

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract with
Via Mobility Services for the provision of Travel Training services. Performance under
the contract is for a one (1) year period and shall not exceed $134,040.

XII.

Executive Session

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business

XV.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

