2023-03-28
Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: We on? OK. Good evening. I will now call the Tuesday, March 28, RTD Board
Meeting to order. We're convened as of-- yeah. [LAUGHS] Thank you. Thank you, Doug Tisdale, Director
Tisdale. We're convened as of 5:30 PM, and I respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you're
recognized to speak.
I'm Lynn Guissinger I'm the Board Chair. We are back to having a safety moment because we're not sitting
in the quiet of our homes this night for the first time in quite a while, so our safety moment is that down in
the boardroom here, there are two exits, one back here and one right here. If there's any sort of emergency,
go out, climb the stairs, and you should be able to get outside. I think it is.
SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: It does say that. [LAUGHS] OK.
All right. Thank you all for joining us this evening as the Board has moved to in-person for the monthly
Board meetings. Please note that the committee meetings will continue to be held remotely via Zoom unless
decided otherwise, and we'll audio and video record it. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
You can visit rtd.denver.com, and a live stream of this meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page.
Director Williams, would you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
KATE WILLIAMS: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Director Dishell, would you please read the land acknowledge?
BOBBY DISHELL: The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains
operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that
are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
Let this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future
contributions in the district as we move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I will now call roll. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
Director Ruscha? She will not be able to make it tonight. Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am here. I am Lynn Guissinger.
All right. With 14 present and one absent, we have a quorum.
One of the more rewarding duties on this Board is the recognition of RTD retirees, and we are recognizing
several employees tonight who are retiring. Our retirees were unable to attend tonight's meeting, but I'd like
to read the Statement of Employee Appreciation that we will vote on later this evening.
The employees who have retired since January are Philip Martinez, a Parts Clerk for 31 years, David Ober,
Superintendent of Maintenance, 29 years, Brian Sapp, lead Light Rail Field Supervisor, 26 years, and
Robbie Shockley, Body Shop Supervisor, for 30 years.
The Board of Directors recognizes that RTD's dedicated workforce is the lifeblood of the agency. Every
day, our employees do extraordinary things to make life better through connection. We honor their work
delivering transit excellence, service, and value to the community, especially demonstrated during difficult
and stressful moments. May the actions taken by the Board of Directors demonstrate our profound
gratitude, commitment, and support for all our RTD employees.
Yeah, thanks to them. Thanks to all our employees.
This is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board. If you'd
like to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand, or press star-9 on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak.
If you're dialed in, press star-6 to toggle your mute settings. Bear in mind that by participating in this process
you're being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in
writing.

Before I finished reading all the rest of it, do we have speakers in the queue? We do, good. If any speaker
has documentation or reference materials for the Board or if any member of the public would like to submit
written comments, please email those to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and they will have up to three minutes to provide your comments.
Whom do we have in the queue?
SPEAKER: We have Richard Bamber.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Bamber, you are our first speaker. Please state your name, and proceed.

RICHARD BAMBER: Good evening, everybody. It's Richard Bamber. Probably no surprise, I'm going to
start with light rail. I'm well aware of what the Colorado Revised Statutes say, don't agree with them, but
what we I think we can ask for is timely updates from RTD as to when the report is going to be issued to
the-- submitted to the PUC.
We had a really good engineering reasons on the Nine Mile situation with elevators a while ago. It would
be much appreciated to have a similar explanation as to what is preventing the line being reopened at
Jefferson County Government Center.
Moving on, on the Board retreat-- I did listen to it. Yes, I know. I probably need to get some hobbies. But
one of the great things was there was talk of the welcoming transit environment and that being expanded
not just from safety and security but to things like accessible, efficient, safe, Director [INAUDIBLE] talked
about putting in our digital systems what you get on your cell phone, lots of great comments.
So I'm going to ask today, if this has a chance of being passed as a policy, please, please pass it. And I'd
lastly like to finish with operator proclamation. I heard a couple of Directors in the Executive Committee
have got a proclamation in honor of our operators.
I'd like to tell you about Sean, who drives the number 43. Sean picks me up from the Celtic tavern, 14th
and Market, drives me down to 21st and Stout, which is the British Bulldog. And then it takes Sean about
an hour and a half to drive the 43 to Central Park, back downtown, and come around the loop.
I then get on my bus. He takes me home, and he says, hi, Richard. Did you have a nice time at the pub?
And I'm sorry. That is such brilliant service, and he is just one of so many good operators. So they absolutely
deserve it. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Mr. Bamber. That's a great story. Do we have others in the line?
SPEAKER: Next, we have Scott Ramming.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hey, Mr. Ramming. Please state your name, and proceed.
MICHAEL RAMMING: OK. Hello, are you able to hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We are. We can, yeah.
MICHAEL RAMMING: Yeah. I'm Dr. Michael Scott Ramming. I'm a resident of District C, near the 30th and
Downing and 38th and Blake stations. I've made some comments concerning the May service changes
before the commenting deadline, but I don't see them summarized in tonight's agenda packet, nor do I see
really any comments on the service changes in the March Board briefing documents.

I've heard that others have also made comments that are not reflected in the summary that's in your packet
tonight. My allotted three minutes wouldn't allow me enough time to explain all of my current concerns, so
here's the briefest of summary.
I express the concern about Route 6. There's no such entry in your packet. I expressed a concern about
Route 43, no entry, expressed a concern about connections between the R Line and the N Line. While
there are two R Line topics, mine aren't either of those.
I expressed a concern about unintended consequences of merging Routes 34 and 38 on the StoutCalifornia couplet and even suggested some ways of mitigating that. I see no summary of that comment.
And I expressed a concern about service balancing not being consistently applied to the L Line. Again, that
doesn't occur.
I've seen other comments on routes that aren't being changed under this proposed service change, and so
I just wonder what is the discrepancy. And finally, I'd like to urge the Board to move the May service changes
off of the unanimous consent agenda and to a recommended action item so that at least the Board members
can have a discussion that needs to occur. So thank you for your time this evening, members of the Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you Dr. Ramming, and thanks for bringing that to our attention. Other
speakers?
SPEAKER: Next up is Amy Homburger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Homburger, please state your name, and proceed. Are you there, Ms.
Homburger? Maybe we'll try again in a few minutes. Are there—
AMY HOMBURGER: I'm here. Sorry. Can you hear me? I tried to hit unmute, and it didn't. Is it working?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It is. We can hear you now. Thanks.
AMY HOMBURGER: OK. Thank you. My name is Amy Homburger, and I'm a parent of a freshman at the
School of Mines in Golden and a junior at Denver South High School. I also work part time at South as a
paraprofessional for the school nurse, and I'm also working part time toward a Master of Social Work.
I'm a native of Denver, and I'm in my 50s. And so in the '80s, I was school bused from Southeast Denver
up to Hallett Elementary, and I also remember in 1995 when school bussing ended and school choice
started in Denver Public Schools. But the problem is that, without transportation, students don't really have
a true freedom of choice in their schools.
So I am just speaking today to advocate in favor of the pilot program that I read about giving free RTD
passes to youth in Denver. Transportation is really only one element of school integration, but it's very
important to our city. And I just hope that you will implement the pilot program for our students, and thank
you for listening.

LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome, and thank you for coming and sharing with us. Who is next?
SPEAKER: There are no other comments in the queue. However, we received five emails that will be
attached to tonight's transcripts, one from Elisa Baker on Civic Center Plaza and Civic Center Station, Amy
Homburger on student fares, on E Line, Greater Denver Transit on a suspension of the L Line service, and
Via Mobility Access-a-Ride, and FlexRide services.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. With no other participants in the queue, we'll close the public
participation period at this time. This month, we have three external entity reports. The first report is from
the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee or APAC. Julie Jennings, please start when you are
ready.

JULIE JENNINGS: Hello. I'm Julie Jennings. Thank you for the opportunity to present a summary of minutes
from our March 14, 2023 meeting. Joe Beaver from the Cross-- I'm sorry-- Colorado Cross-Disability
Coalition joined APAC as an ex-officio member. RTD system-wide fair and equity analysis-- on February
14, the RTD Board of Directors Finance Committee reviewed a potential new fare structure and proposed
programs.
In May, there will be a public hearing on the final recommended fare structure. The RTD Board will make a
final decision at the July Board meeting, and gradual implementation will start the first quarter of 2024.
Proposed programs for 2024 are the LiVe Program, Pass Program, Zero Fare for youth, BOLT Purchase
Program, Transit Assistance Grant, and Semester Pass for community colleges, Q-Ride mobile app, which
is the replacement for the route match software correctly used. The Q-Ride mobile app is currently being
tested by several APAC members. The app offers customers self-scheduling and real-time vehicle tracking.
The transition to Q-Ride will be April 15, 2023. Customers are unlikely to notice a difference. However the
customers currently using the existing mobile app and web portal will need to install a new link or shortcut
on their phones.
Access-a-Ride services vendors RFP-- the RTD Board will review and decide on contract awards during
their March 28, 2023 meeting. RTD received six bids for the provision of the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide
services.
The call center RFP process-- the call center handles the Access-a-Ride reservations, scheduling, and
dispatch. Current providers contract ends on September 30, 2023. The RFP is scheduled to be released at
the end of March. The RTB Board will review and decide on the award during their June 2023 meeting. And
that concludes our minutes. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. The second report is from the Advisory Committee for People
with Disabilities or ACPD. Mr. Lee, you may begin.
EARL LEE: Thank you very much. The March 14th meeting was a joint meeting between the ACPD and
the APAC, APAC. So we got to hear their-- we got input from them as well. Sorry.
The first thing that we discussed was the Nine Mile elevator outage. The group explained to us why it was
out of service, what kind of repairs needed to be done, and the cause for the failure. This is going to be an
extended closure, I believe, if I recall correctly, into June possibly before it's up and running again. It's quite
a project to repair the elevator.
This becomes very important to those of us who used wheelchairs to travel when there's an elevator that
is out of service-- it makes it very difficult for us to get around-- which brought up a discussion regarding
notifications of these types of failures. One of the comments made by someone within RTD group said that
an order for signs for that stop had been submitted.
Unfortunately, with these types of things, when they happen, we need notifications real-time. So we've
begun some discussions on how to better handle notifications on a short-term basis.
One suggestion was whether the operators, once they were made aware of some things such as the Nine
Mile elevator being out, if they could make some sort of an announcement the stop before so that if people
need to de-board the train and pick up a shuttle or some other-- a bus bridge to get to their location, they
know rather than getting to their location and not being able to go from there.
The next part of our discussion had to do with the 16th Street Mall and the changes being made there. We
were able to attend a preview of the Mall pavers earlier this year, and a couple of the ACPD members had

suggested some enhancements to the edge detection to try to make it a little bit more user-friendly for
individuals who travel with canes.
Gabe Christie had discussions with the city and county of Denver, and he was told that the design
suggestions that we made could not be incorporated in the design, that, basically, contracts were final,
plans were final. So the final mockup at 16th and Welton is how the pavers are going to be laid out. So if
you haven't seen that, it's pretty interesting.
We, too, welcomed some ex-officio members into our group. Mike Oxford of Atlantis Inc and Joe Beaver of
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition attended their first meeting with us. We certainly hope that their input
will be valuable in the future. And that concludes my presentation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Mr. Lee. Our last report is from the Citizens Advisory Committee,
or the CAC. Mr. Fussa, please, the floor is yours.
JOHN FUSSA: Thank you, Chair Guissinger and the RTD Board, and thank you for the opportunity to
provide a brief update for the CAC. The Citizens Advisory Committee met on March 9 for our monthly
update, and I just want to acknowledge and thank RTD staff and the consultant team for their continued
support and invaluable assistance.

The two or three main topics were of discussion which we would like to provide comment on. One is a brief
update. We received a brief update on RTD's subregional service council initiative and effort. CAC
continues to both be interested in that effort and wholeheartedly supports it. We look forward to an
opportunity to participate in it, and we urge the organization and the Board to support that concept going
forward.
Several CAC members commented that it seems to be similar to Dr. [? Cogg's ?] effort modeled on kind of
local and subregional input and funding. And we believe that's a good model for RTD to follow. So we
continue to support that and urge RTD to proceed with that initiative.
The majority of our meeting was spent discussing and receiving updates on the Fare Study and Equity
Analysis, again, which the CAC wholeheartedly supports. The CAC had previously identified proposed
option or alternative B as the one that the CAC thinks makes the most sense and that delivers the most
benefit in the district to riders, the organization, and the communities in the district.
We're pleased to see that effort looks like it's pointing to and will lead to some version of option or alternative
B. The CAC would like to-- would like to let the Board know that we support and recommend option B. We
feel it provides a simplified fair structure, it provides for ease of use, it reduces cost and, therefore, barriers
to ridership and usage of the system.
And we think RTD, the staff and the Board, are to be commended for undertaking that effort and looking to
simplify both the fare structure and the cost to use the system. We do have some concerns, though, about
the fares for service to the airport, to Denver International Airport. That cost still seems, in the scheme of
things, under option or alternative B, fairly high. We are worried at the CAC that that may be a barrier to
usage.
It seems to be a premium cost, and if the district is going to provide or charge a premium for airport service,
then the service needs to be timely and reliable. Several CAC members commented on their personal
experiences with canceled buses, particularly from the northwest portion of the district to Denver
International Airport. So we urge staff and the Board to continue to reevaluate the cost for the airport service,
and if it's going to be a premium service and premium in cost, that it be reliable and speedy, with frequent
headways.

We also worry about the cost for people who work at the airport, that they have options and alternatives to
use transit and bus and rail service for their shifts at the airport that isn't too expensive.

We also discussed and look forward to getting more information and providing comments to the Board
about how the new fare structure will affect EcoPass and echo pass options in the district and for riders of
the system. So we do hope to provide comments to the Board about that later in the spring.
We've also requested information about options and perhaps a pilot program for Zero Fare for youth, for
riders of the system age 19 or younger, and we're told that there is some discussion of a pilot program on
Zero Fare for youth. And we're keenly interested in that.

Finally, and kind of wrapping things up, we thank the Board for being open and willing to meet with CAC
members either one on one or in small groups. So we know there are some comparing of schedules to get
those meetings set up. So we thank the Board for that, and we look forward to those meetings later this
spring.

And then finally, there was some discussion-- and we hope to provide future comments to the Board-- with
regard to RTD's Code of Conduct policy. We know that discussion from a policy perspective has been
tabled, and we certainly understand that. But the CAC continues to both be interested in and mindful of
system safety for riders as well as operators.

We think that's a potential barrier to usage as RTD and the system recovers from the COVID disruption,
and so we do hope to get more information on RTD's code of conduct policy as that discussion unfolds later
this year. And we would like to be able to provide comments to the Board when that discussion continues
later this year. And Chair Guissinger and Board, that's my report out for CAC for March. Thank you for that
opportunity to update you. Have a good evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, all three. We really appreciate you coming, and we appreciate the work
that you and your other committee members put in to give us this feedback. It's helpful feedback. We are
going to go through our committee reports at this point, Zero Emission Vehicles Ad Hoc Committee. Director
Dishell, do you have a report?

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Guissinger. The Zero Emission Vehicle Ad Hoc Committee met
earlier this month to discuss what our path forward may look like and want to provide an update here for
the entire Board. At the April 12 Operations Committee meeting, there will be a discussion item on the
agenda related to zero-emission transition and a zero-emission policy that's been workshopped and on
these Ad Hoc Agenda since about a year and sort of fine-tuned over time.

So that will be at the Ops Committee for discussion purposes and also just procedurally. And then it will be
voted on at the Executive Committee at the end of the month and, should it pass through Executive
Committee, presented to the entire Board at the April Board meeting.

There will, of course, be opportunities for suggested amendments during the discussion at the Ops
Committee, which can be brought forward during the Executive Committee. In that discussion, you'll see

some of the initial recommended amendments that we've made just based off of the roundtables, different
events that folks have attended, and industry best practices. And you will see that forthcoming.

And with that-- oh, and on a go-forward basis, while the committee will still exist, most of the activity related
to a zero-emission transition, removing the vehicle component intentionally because I think, as many know,
it's not just replacing a vehicle. It's replacing a system. And that includes facilities. That includes
infrastructure. That includes the vehicles themselves. That includes the fuel that we use to power the
vehicles and the ways in which we get that fuel, whether that's energy, or hydrogen, or anything else we
have yet to understand.

So zero-emission-related activities will now be going through Operations by and large as opposed to the
Ad Hoc Committee, and it was a pleasure to serve as Chair of that committee. That is my report. Thank
you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And while you have your speaker on, would you like to give the report
from the Audit Committee?

BOBBY DISHELL: Sure. The Audit Committee did not meet this past month. However, I do have a written
update to update the Board on. Our external auditors in the last few weeks of their field work related to our
financial statements and federal grants. They are on track for a timely completion.

They are anticipating a draft of the ACFR coming out shortly, likely this week or early next week, which will
be finalized in April. The April Board-- the Audit Committee is meeting on April 6 at 10:00 AM. And as a
reminder for board members, we have both internal audit which has performed an outsourced function
through RubinBrown, as well as external audit, which is being performed by Plante Moran. And that
concludes my report on the Audit Committee.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Director Tisdale, 40 years ago, when you were sitting here
and I was sitting off in the corner over there, you told me that corner seat is where Chairs come from. So I
guess it's true. So Michael, keep that in mind. [LAUGHS] Director Tisdale, Committee Chair, do you have
anything on the Finance and Planning Committee?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair, and I appreciate your fine memory on that
discussion point some years ago. The Finance and Planning Committee met on March the 7th and
considered matters that are reflected in the minutes of that meeting which have been attached to the
materials for this Board meeting.

And as a result, the committee forwarded several unanimous consent actions to be considered this evening
at this Board meeting and one recommended action that is on this evening's agenda. And that was the work
of the Finance and Planning Committee on March the 7th. Thank you, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Operations and Safety Committee report-- Committee Chair Williams, do
you have a report?

KATE WILLIAMS: I do have, Madam Chair. Thank you. The Operations and Safety Committee met on
March 8. The information from that meeting is also available through the regular links on our website. We
discussed several recommended actions regarding Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services.

The Equity Analysis Report and the service changes-- all of those were discussed in Committee. A number
of issues were addressed at length, and we did move those items forward. Thank you, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And the Performance Committee Report, Committee Chair Davidson?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. The performance committee met on March 7, and we
unanimously passed the Community Value and Customer Excellence Survey's scope of work to move
forward, which is on this evening's unanimous consent agenda. It was a brief meeting.

I'll just remind everybody that at the prior meeting in February we discussed meeting three times, April,
May, and June, to thoroughly review our performance assessment process of both agency and General
Manager. There was a general consensus of the committee at that prior meeting that we did not like the
process last year for evaluating the performance of our General Manager.

So as a reminder, the Committee members are currently reviewing the General manager's employment
contract as amended in its Fourth Amendment, the compensation study report performed by Gallagher last
year, as well as the strategic plan. And we'll be reconvening on April 12 at 9:00 AM to review ideas and
brainstorm ideas about how to improve the process.
We will again convene in May, followed by June, and at that point, we will reassess a more permanent
cadence for the committee going forward. That concludes my report. Thank you, Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. The minutes of the Board and Committee meetings were included in the
Board packet. Are there any corrections or comments from the Board? Nope? Unless there's objection, we
will consider these minutes-- well, I guess I need a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings
to consider them all at the same time.

KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.

VINCE BUZEK: Buzek second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. It's February 28, 2023 Board meeting, March 7, 2023 Finance and Planning
Committee meeting, March 7, 2023 Performance Committee, March 8, 2023 Operations and Safety, March

16, 2023 Executive Committee, and the March 23, 2023 Executive Committee. I heard Director Williams'
movement and Director Buzek as the second. Is there any discussion?

All right. Are there any no votes? All right. With 14 yes votes, and zero no votes, and one absence, the
motion passes.

All right. Time for the Chair's report. I'll start by saying thank you to our Board team and all the people who
have been working hard to get us back in person here because, as we learned in our retreat the other day,
we do, I think-- I think it's a different feeling, and it's nice to be back. So thank you to many, but especially
thanks to [INAUDIBLE], and [? Julien, ?] and [? Marie ?] for the hard work to get this done.

We had a great retreat. All 15 members participated. We had some great discussion of policy issues,
diversifying funding, increasing the Board engagement in our communities and working with staff to have a
system of easy presentations and messages. Welcoming transit environment, safety and security, and
sustainability and transition planning were the topics that came out of this, and we're looking forward to
moving those forward.

We talked about what committees those might be on, and I'll be meeting with Jonathan Bartsch, our
facilitator, next week and hopefully start to move those things forward. Our legislative team is not here
tonight.

And Michael Davies could do this better than I can, but I'm going to just give you the quick update, which
is House Bill 1101, which is the one that would allow the money from our Zero Fare months-- the grant
money that was not used to roll over to this year and would take away the requirement that RTD provide
the 20% match.

It passed both houses, and it's been in conference committee. There were apparently some amendments,
maybe, to the CDOT Amendment but nothing on ours, and we expect it to have the House and Senate
concur and move that forward to the Governor's desk soon, which is exciting.

The Sales and Use Tax Waiver-- there's a motion-- there's a bill for disaster victims. It's largely a the
Marshall fire and the East Troublesome Fire, I think. That is moving forward. As we've said in the past, our
sales and use tax is tied to the states, and that's been a very good thing for RTD. It's saved us lots of
money, made us lots of money. So we'll see what happens with that.

I went to the APTA conference with Director Whitmore, and Director Tisdale, and our GM/CEO, and Michael
Davies. And it was a good conference. It was all about trying to get the money out, and we had some-- and
FTA is working on that and doing a good job from the IIJA or the BIL.

And then we had some meetings with some of the staff and both of the senators. I missed some of those,
having to come back. But we were able to talk to them about the importance of the Colfax CIG grant request.

That grant request was included in the president's budget with a high rating from the FTA, so that's great
news in terms of getting that fulfilled.

Finally, you've all heard this, but I want to say it publicly, a big congratulations to Debra Johnson, our
GM/CEO, that, last week, the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition, CCDC, recognized her as one of two
Community Builders with the Community Builder Award. And I sent the video around this afternoon. It's
very short, but it's very worthwhile.

Julie Reiskin, who leads that group, explained that the award was basically for relationships that developed
that were unexpected, and she explained that, for many years, the only time she talked to people from RTD
was in court or in similar situations. And when Ms. Johnson came on, she called Julie Reiskin right away
and has been responsive with the disability community and also with the initiatives to hire and support
people with disabilities.

So that makes us all look good, and we appreciate that. And that is-- that is my report. Thanks. I believe
the ball is in your court, Ms. Johnson, your General Manager's report.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Madam Chair, and I appreciate the acknowledgment from the
Board. It's my pleasure to be with you this evening, my first time in this space. As introduced, I'm Debra
Johnson, the General Manager and CEO of the Regional Transportation District, and this evening, I will
share with you the following information centered around our strategic priorities.

Regarding community value, I will discuss-- you can't hear me?

SPEAKER: [INAUDIBLE]

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Appreciate that. OK. Is that better?
SPEAKER: Yeah.

DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, very well. So regarding community value, I will discuss a number of meetings and
events which I have engaged in over the course of the last month since our last regularly scheduled Board
meeting.

Additionally, I will talk about our virtual meeting, for which local officials, local elected officials from across
RTD's service area, were invited, the legislative conference which the Chair just referenced, and a number
of meetings related thereto, as well as the WTS, which is the Women's Transportation Seminar,
International Spring Policy Symposium, one-on-one meetings which I have had with county commissioners,
the recent Front Range Passenger Rail District Board meeting.

Also, in relation to community value as well as customer excellence, I will share information regarding the
customer code of conduct public engagement effort that is being branded Respect the Ride, in which-- it
will commence next week. A series of informational meetings regarding the Northwest Rail Peak Study
regarding customer excellence-- and I'm smiling at Director Williams because I will discuss QR codes being
posted at bus shelters.

As well as speaking to an employee ownership, I will touch upon the military recruitment campaign currently
underway, staff engagement with high school students in Commerce City, and finally, an advertising
campaign for which RTD received an award during the American Public Transportation Association's
annual marketing and communications workshop.

So getting on to the local elected officials meeting, on Wednesday, March 8, RTD sponsored a virtual
meeting for which the mayors, city council members, and county commissioners representing localities
throughout the agency's service area were invited to attend.

During this engagement, I presented information on a number of topics, including the agency's people
power, restoring and maintaining a welcoming transit environment, the call for projects partnership program,
and the current status of the system-wide Fare Study and Equity Analysis.

And lastly, before engaging in an open dialogue with attendees, our Government Relations Officer, Michael
Davies, touched on agency efforts to enhance engagement with local elected officials. This meeting was
held as part of the agency's overreaching efforts to improve engagement with local elected officials
throughout the agency service area, of which I know this Board is committed to doing.

As Board members may recall, in December of 2022, staff conducted a survey among the same local
elected officials to gauge how best to improve communications and engagement amongst RTD and the
counties and municipalities it serves.

A common theme among respondents was the desire for RTD to be more present at City Council and
County Commission meetings. In response to that, Government Relations Officer Michael Davies and our
Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, Stuart Summers, in coordination with our third-party
contractor [INAUDIBLE], Public Affairs, are developing outreach tools.

That includes standardized presentation materials and talking points for use by Directors during scheduled
engagement opportunities, not only with elected policy bodies but with TMOs, TMAs, chambers of
commerce, and more. This is in alignment with the comments. I provided to you all on Saturday, March 25
at the Board retreat.

Further, staff will be hosting a study session with the Board to be scheduled in the near future which will
function as a Speaker's Bureau training. You heard from the Chair that we participated in the APTA
Legislative Conference. More specifically, on Friday, March 10, I traveled to Washington, DC to participate

in the annual conference as well as committee meetings and meetings with officials on Capitol Hill over the
course of a single fast-paced week.

And you heard the participants, being Chair Guissinger, Directors Tisdale and Whitmore, and then our
Government Relations Officer, Michael Davies. Beginning on Saturday, March 11, I participated in several
APTA Committee meetings, including the APTA Board of Directors meeting as well as seminars-- and
Director Tisdale, of course, was participating as well-- as well as seminars and informational sessions
regarding important federal legislation and policy initiatives.

The attendees from RTD also took part in a series of scheduled meetings, as you heard from the Chair,
with members of Colorado's congressional delegation, as well as federal regulators from the US
Department of Transportation, the Federal Transit Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration, in
addition to meeting with congressional committee staffers.

On Saturday morning, March 11, I also attended a meeting convened by the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority in which transit executives were asked to share insights and weigh
in on logistical considerations and potential bus fleet needs as Los Angeles-- the greater area begins
preparations to host the 2028 Olympics and Paralympic Games.

Later in the week, on March 15 and the 16, I attended the International Spring Policy Symposium. The
symposium highlighted WT's efforts to educate members, industry stakeholders, and decision-makers, and
to advocate on behalf of women in advancing transportation.

During the symposium, I participated in a panel entitled A Leader's Perspective on Innovation and
Transportation, and panelists included Nat Ford, the CEO of the Jacksonville Transportation Authority,
Yetunde Olumide, Chief Financial Officer at the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority. And the
panel was moderated by the WTS International Board Chair Jannet Walker-Ford.

On Monday, March 20, I met with Boulder County Commissioner Claire Levy to discuss Northwest Rail
Peak Service Study, and related transit topics being the Front Range Passenger Rail. Additionally, later
that week, on Thursday, March 23, I met with the Arapahoe County Commissioner, Bill Holland, regarding
partnership opportunities as we look to advance initiatives to improve air quality in the region as he serves
on the Regional Air Quality Committee as well.

On Friday, March 24, I took part in the Front Range Passenger Rail District Board meeting in which the
Board members discussed takeaways from a retreat that we held in December, of which I serve as an exofficio member. Let me qualify that. We discussed the service development plan for the district and the
district annual budget.

Relating to comments we heard from our representative from the Citizens Advisory Committee, I do want
to share, regarding the proposed revisions to the customer Code of Conduct beginning April 3. Staff will

embark on a two-month outreach and engagement plan to rebrand the customer Code of Conduct and to
solicit feedback about proposed revisions.

The comprehensive plan will utilize a mix of owned and earned media to engage customers and community
partners to share feedback. At the conclusion of the feedback window, all comments and input will be
provided to the Board during the June 2023 meeting cycle. The customer Code of Conduct will be rebranded
as Respect the Ride.

To emphasize common courtesy and the fundamental need to respect other customers and RTD
employees, vehicles, and facilities, Respect the Ride is a list of behavioral guidelines and prohibited
activities that supports the agency's mission to make lives better through connections. The goal of respect
the right is to provide a safe, convenient, and enjoyable experience for all customers while also discouraging
disruptive or antisocial behaviors.

As Board members will recall, the customer Code of Conduct provisions were initially approved during the
February 2023 Operations and Safety Committee Meeting, and the Executive Committee later voted to
postpone final action on the matter until June to give staff adequate time to conduct additional outreach
activities and to garner feedback from customers and the community as a whole.

As part of the outreach strategy, staff will engage with more than 30 community partners and organizations
to directly gather input and solicit feedback from their members and communities. Additional tactics will
include media relations, a social media campaign, an all-employee forum, the development of overview
materials in English and Spanish, and participation in community events, including a large forum hosted by
RTD on Saturday, April 29.

The comprehensive outreach strategy will solicit feedback, answer questions, correct misinformation, and
address overarching concerns. And more specifically, I will be sending communique that outlines all of this
so you all will see what exactly we're talking about prior to the launch of this extensive outreach campaign
that will commence on April 3.

Since the last board meeting on February 28, staff has been engaged in open houses in several locations,
informing vast variants of the population regarding the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study.
For those who may be listening in that may be unfamiliar, which I doubt, the study being conducted to
establish a common set of facts in order to explore the feasibility of operating limited commuter rail service
in the Northwest area of the district along an existing corridor owned by the Burlington Northern Santa Fe
Railway.

Regarding customer excellence, staff is in the process of posting QR codes throughout the service area at
bus shelters owned by RTD and by others. The QR codes link users will-- provide language assistance
services for those that aren't English-proficient, transit schedules, and the Transit Watch app. Some Board
members may recall this topic was just broached during the Board retreat this past Saturday.

And I responded with, the team is currently working on this, and I'm glad to see we are aligned. So as it
relates to the strategic priority of employee ownership, RTD's recruitment campaign launched in Colorado
Springs and surrounding areas this month focusing on the military-- this program seeks to engage with
individuals transitioning out of the military and into civilian life to inform them about positions with the
agency.

Additionally, as it relates to RTD careers, staff also met with Adams City High School students in Commerce
City to discuss career opportunities with RTD for graduating seniors.

Ad Wheel Awards-- and lastly, I'm proud to announce that during the recent American Public Transportation
Association's Marketing and Communications Workshop that took place just in February, RTD was awarded
first place for the Colorado Proud campaign in the category of Best Educational Social Media. More than
100 industry experts evaluated 275 entries, and the top first-place winners will compete in the grand Ad
Wheel Awards. The winners will be announced at the Transform Conference that will be held in Orlando,
Florida in October.

And with that, Madam Chair, I will yield the floor and conclude my remarks. Thank you very kindly.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very kindly. It sounds very busy. There's some exciting things happening
there. And congratulations to the Marketing team and Communications team that has just won the award.
We've gone through a lot of reports. Are there any questions, comments, anything? No. OK. Ah, Director
Dishell. I'm not used to looking for your picture. There you go.

BOBBY DISHELL: Figured out how to turn on and off the virtual hand. Thank you for the great report. One
quick clarifying question. It's exciting the QR codes are already being rolled out on RTD bus shelters. Is
there a plan to roll them out to the flags as well? Or is this sort of going to be piloted and re-evaluated at
that later time?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the question. Madam Chair, if I may address Director Dishell.

LYNN GUISSINGER: You bet.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so initially, it's the transit shelters, and so as we go forward, we will discern, as
we look at the flags and the polls and that gets back to our conversation-- so we will keep you apprised.
Recognizing-- I'm going to speak a little bit out of school here.

Coming to the Operations and Safety Committee, holistically we are looking at our customer amenities and
recognizing that we have 1,900 bus stops within the district, and we only basically have auspices over 300
of them. We need to do an assessment, so gradual implementation, and to discern what might be the best
path forward.

BOBBY DISHELL: 1,900 bus shelters?

DEBRA JOHNSON: 1,900 bus stops. Jessie?

JESSIE CARTER: Over 9,800.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, 9,800. Oh my God, yes.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you very much.

BOBBY DISHELL: It's just-- I know you know, but I just want to correct-- make sure—

DEBRA JOHNSON: [INAUDIBLE] listening. I get it. Thank you for correcting me. I was like, yeah, that didn't
make sense. All right.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else? Don't see any of the pictures. All right. Now, the
unanimous consent agenda-- there are four items on the unanimous consent agenda listed under item 16
as actions A and D. Those items are Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis Contract Amendment,
Community Value and Customer Excellence Surveys Scope of Work, May 2023 Title VI Service Equity
Analysis, and May 2023 Service Change.

For anyone who might be listening in that has not attended in the past, all of these were presented and
discussed, some of them at length, in the committee meetings over the last month. If anyone has a change
to or questions on any item, please feel free to let me know, and I'll be happy to pull it from the unanimous
consent agenda for consideration and recommended action.

Seeing none, may I have a motion to approve the consent agenda?

DOUG TISDALE: You have approval of the consent agenda, Tisdale.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard Director Tisdale, and Director Bouquet is the second. Are there any no votes
on this action?

BOBBY DISHELL: Here.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: If we could have a brief discussion just to-- we received input during public comment
about certain customer comments possibly not being included in the March Board briefing documents or in
this packet. If we could get an update, just knowing that it was looked into, to find out where the
misalignment is, that would be greatly appreciated.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Madam Chair, thank you, and thank you, Director Dishell. I would like to request
that Jessie Carter, our Senior Manager of Service Development, approach the podium and provide
information relative to the questions that were posed. Thank you very kindly.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Do you have a microphone, Mr. Carter? No? [LAUGHS]
You might need to-- yeah, there you go.

JESSIE CARTER: There we go. OK, so in following up, I want to, first and foremost, apologize for not
having Dr. Michael Scott Ramming's comments in the Board information. I will say that we've heard a lot in
the past from Dr. Ramming, and I wish we did have his comments there to talk about them point to point.

But I did remember him making a very clear statement about 17th, 19th, California, and Stout Streets and
the Route 38 being rerouted onto those alignments, and to that I have to say, as a reminder, that the new
Route 38-- the combination of the 34 and 38 are actually a return to a prior rerouting of the Route 38 prior
to 2016.

We actually created the Route 34. We broke it in 2016 with the implementation of the University of Colorado
A Line service change. So in responding to his concern, I'd have to just remind him that we have been on
that same alignment before for many, many years prior to that.

So I will reach out to Dr. Scott Ramming and speak to him a little bit more about his comments. And again,
I apologize for his comments not being there, but we were not in receipt of them.

LYNN GUISSINGER: You didn't receive them? Is that what you said?

JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Any other questions? No? OK. I think Mr. Guzman, Director Broom, unless-- is
this for-- Mr. Carter-- is your question different, Director Broom, or is-- oh, you're waiting to speak.
[LAUGHS] Director Guzman, go ahead.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just want to say for the record, I do believe that Dr. Ramming's comments were sent
to me and forwarded to the Board Office to be reviewed in regards to this. So I'm not sure what the process
issue is, but thank you for taking care of them. And can you please keep me in the loop on these
communications? Because I know I have an ongoing conversation with Dr. Ramming as well. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Yeah? OK, Director Williams. [LAUGHS]

KATE WILLIAMS: I did push the button. I'd like to remind everybody that our Board staff is operating at
75% of their normal personnel, and they have had to deal with all of the logistics of this room and all of us.
And so I think they are to be commended, and I'm sure that going forward they will, as they have in the
past, have all comments accessible. Thanks.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And as I tell people when they write me with service change questions, the easiest
thing-- obviously, I can forward this to servicechanges@rtd-denver.com, but I suggest that they do it so it
comes with their name. And that's the most straightforward. Nobody has to get in the middle,
servicechanges@rtd-denver.com.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, sure.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: A point of clarification-- that was not to disrespect to our office staff at all. I know that
they are working really hard for us. Dr. Ramming did reach out to me directly after he realized his comments
were not in the original packet we received on these issues, and so we've had that discussion. I've talked
to him about that, too. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Thanks. Thank you, Mr. Carter. All right. We have a motion. I believe it
was Director Tisdale and Director-- and the second was Director Bouquet-- to approve the consent agenda.
Are there any no votes on this action? No. OK, with 14 yes, and zero no, and one absent, this motion
passes.

All right. The two recommended actions on the agenda tonight listed as Item 17, Actions E and F. The first
action is for the-- E, Access-a-Ride and FlexRide service contracts, for the Board of Directors to authorize
the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into contracts with MTM Transit, Transdev Services

Inc, Transdev On Demand, and Via Mobility Services for the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide
services.
These contracts are for three years with two one-year options for a total of five years at a total not-to-exceed
cost of $296,433,073. Additionally, RTD will reimburse the contractor's direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be $27,006,014 over five years. The total five-year not-to-exceed cost for Access-a-Ride and
FlexRide services and fuel is $323,439,087. Do we have a motion?

VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.

DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I heard Director Buzek and Director Tisdale. Is there any discussion on this
motion?

KATE WILLIAMS: My hand is up.

LYNN GUISSINGER: [LAUGHS] Director William's hand-- her real hand is up, and that's good enough here.

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I believe we're going to have a presentation. Do we want
to have the presentation and then have a discussion or-- yes, no? No? No presentation?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there a-- is there a presentation?

KATE WILLIAMS: They don't have to. If there isn't one, it's OK.

DEBRA JOHNSON: We weren't planning on a presentation, but we do have staff available should questions
need to be addressed.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, then I'll make my statement, and then maybe we'll have some discussion. I'd like to
have a statement. I think the circumstances that we find ourselves in this discussion could have been mostly
avoided if the Board of Directors had had more information about the procurement and the contracts under
discussion sooner than we had.

We have historically had similar issues when the Board of Directors was not given complete information,
insufficient time to fully understand and either agree or disagree with the recommendations of our staff. I
think some of you will remember some of those.

I understand that the Board is elected to make policy, but as elected officials, we are also tasked with
oversight on the best practices for our constituents, most especially for the communities of older adults and
persons who are differently-abled, a community in which I work.

There are several vendors involved in this contract. I have little comment on the MTM portion of the
procurement. I want to note that a letter from Via Mobility is included in tonight's record. I would also like to
note that Transdev is the parent company of IntelliRide, who is currently running Medicaid transportation.
IntelliRide was running Medicaid paratransit service throughout the state of Colorado until the rural
communities raised such concerns about the service that the Health Care Policy and Financing Department
revised the contract and withdrew the service in most of rural Colorado.

IntelliRide is still running the Medicaid transportation service here in the greater Denver area today.
Transdev now operates the two largest paratransit services in our district, 65% of RTDs Access-a-Ride
service and all of the states Medicaid transportation through IntelliRide. Transdev is now also the parent
company of First Transit, who operates RTD's Access-a-Ride Customer Service and Dispatch Center.
I intend to ask for a review of Access-a-Ride's performance a year from now. If the agencies who are
providing accessorize services are meeting their contractual obligations and the service is well-received by
the community of riders, I'm sure we'll all be relieved. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. Any comment, Ms. Johnson or others? No? Not at this
time? OK.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Actually, I do. I do want to acknowledge Director Williams, and I appreciate the
statement. And I want to share once again, in reference to having materials in advance, I inadvertently
missed an email in which she communicated to me, and we got that information to you all as expeditiously
as possible when it was brought to my attention that I had received such communique.

So as we go forward, it is the intent of my team and I to be as responsive as possible and I try my darndest
to do that. But it was just one of those things where I scrolled over, and it looked like it was read.
So I just wanted to acknowledge that publicly so there is an understanding that we try to be as responsive
as possible, and I appreciate the comments set forth. And I believe everybody is in possession of the
communique in which I disseminated relative to the comments that Director Williams had brought forward.
Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams, you have more to say? No.

KATE WILLIAMS: No, I'm good. Thank you, Ms. Johnson.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Your picture is still on my screen, just so you know. Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Do we have contractual flexibility if certain metrics aren't met in terms of
performance, customer service, customer complaints? Do we have flexibility? I know Via Mobility noted
certain repayment to RTD, which it sounds like came from a service delivery. But do we have those
mechanisms not just for possible repayment but to break and re-award the-- go back out to bid and reaward the contract should performance not be satisfactory?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Please.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Director Dishell, thank you very kindly for your question. Rightfully, as we look at
a contract, there's terms and conditions that outline that there are certain performance metrics and
standards and that we do have that ability to do so. To qualify it even more specifically, we do have-- I'm
glad I'm having Dana.

LYNN GUISSINGER: [LAUGHS]

DEBRA JOHNSON: [INAUDIBLE] Dana Steele-- I was having a moment here. Dana Steele is on the call
virtually. She serves as the Director of Contracts and Procurement, and I would like her to address more
specifically because I gave an overarching answer. Ms. Steele? There she is.
DANA STEELE: Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead, Ms. Steele.

DANA STEELE: Director Guissinger. The question is, do we have the ability to terminate the contract-- is
that what I'm hearing-- in-- this would—

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Generally speaking, do we have the ability-- I guess, at a high level, what are the
metrics that they're required to meet? Is it just service delivery? Is it a customer satisfaction? And then
separately, what are our options if those metrics aren't met?

Since we haven't entered into a contract with these vendors, I can't say specifically, but we have the form
of contract that was published with the solicitation. And that will have all of the details about what RTD is
proposing as part of its solicitation. Well, since we're not executing.

DANA STEELE: So typically, yes, there are standards. There is termination for convenience. There are
published metrics. I don't want to speak specifically to what we would do in this case because we haven't
actually entered into the contract.

BOBBY DISHELL: Wonderful. Well, I will not meddle in contract, but we'll note that, at least for this director,
it would be great if something along the lines of a net promoter score, which is what the rest of the agency
is evaluated on, was used as a contractual metric to really invest in that community value and employee
ownership for the way in which the service is delivered.

DANA STEELE: I will tell you that that was not an evaluative criteria in this, but it's something we can
consider moving forward. Thank you.

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Steele. I had a conversation today with Ms. Johnson and Ms. Snyder
about the possibility of a discussion-- not a whole meeting, I don't think, but a discussion in the not-toodistant future about the procurement practices.

And if there are things-- for instance, one that's come up as sustainability is a goal of the Board and the
agency, and there are a lot of restrictions on procurement, as I understand it. But I think we may have a
conversation about that. Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Thank you. [AUDIO OUT] Is it on now?

LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think so. There you go.

BOB BROOM: There we go. I had a question about the dollar amounts that were included on the agenda.
Is that for three years or for five years?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, and thank you for the question, Director Broom. So what's
included on the agenda are the contracts for three years with one two-year options as we go forward, and
the totality of the five year contract is not to exceed the cost that you see relative to the $323,439,087.

BOB BROOM: So that's five years.

DEBRA JOHNSON: That would be five years if we elect it to exercise said options.

BOB BROOM: Thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else, Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so relative to the previous contracts that we've had, is
this more, or about the same, or less amount that we're authorizing?

DEBRA JOHNSON: I would have to yield the floor to Contracts and Procurement and/or Paul Hamilton, as
I don't have that information readily available. And if they don't have the information readily available, we
can circle back and provide use said information. But Steele, do you have that?

DANA STEELE: I do not, and I will defer to Paul if he happens to know.
PAUL HAMILTON: And honestly, I do not have that at my disposal either. I know in General terms the ICE,
the Independent Cost Estimate, does usually have an acceleration year over year from previous contracts,
but I couldn't tell you how much.

DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, what I will commit to is we can circle back with a communique from
my office that will provide those dollar figures. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else, Director Rosenthal? OK. I'm not seeing anyone else. Let's
see. Are there any no votes on this motion? Oh, OK, let me do that differently. Let's call the roll.
Director Bouquet?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Abstain.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Abstain? OK. I've lost my roll. Oh, there it is. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Abstain.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: A point of information-- I previously had tried to abstain I think a year ago and was
not allowed to, so I guess I don't understand that process.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not sure I understand that process either. Ms. Snyder, do you have any-- if your
phone will work or your speaker—

MELANIE SNYDER: OK. There we go. Yes, thank you for the question. So typically, if a Director is going
to abstain, you would do that at the outset, and that would typically be in a situation where there's a conflict
of interest. So I think, usually, I recommend that a Director come and speak with me in advance, and we
can go through those, whether there's any questions.
In order to preserve the reason that the Director might be abstaining, I'm not-- I would ask that we don't talk
about the reasons potentially right now why they might be abstaining. But that's something that we can
address in the future.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there something in our documents, or bylaws, or something that ties it to a conflict?
Is that what you're saying?

MELANIE SNYDER: It's not specifically in the bylaws, but that's typically the practice of the reason why a
Director might abstain.

BOBBY DISHELL: There's no conflict of interest. I'm a no.

LYNN GUISSINGER: You're a no. OK. And who else? Who else abstained? Mr. Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That would be me, and it's simply because I don't know how to vote on this. I don't
have an answer one way or the other, so I would default to no if I really have to be pushed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't recall abstaining, but OK, I guess we need to-- Ms. Snyder, are you saying we
should not have any abstentions?

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, I'm saying, absent a conflict, we should have each Director vote on the matter.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So I am going to start over.

BOBBY DISHELL: Sorry.

LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all right. Director Bouquet?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha is absent. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a yes. So did I count four no votes? The no votes were directed Dishell,
Director Guzman, Harwick, and Williams. And the motion passes with 10 yes votes, four no votes, and one
absent. All right. Back to where I was.

Our next-- we have one more recommended action, which I will find here in just a second. Back to my
agenda, all right, second action is for the statement of employee appreciation. It's recommended by RTD
Directors Catlin, Ruscha, and Sloan that the Board of Directors incorporate a statement of employee
appreciation at appropriate monthly Board meetings as identified by the Board Chair. Do we have a motion?

KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Williams.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Guzman.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion from Director Williams and a second from Director Guzman.
Is there any discussion? I would point out that this is what we read earlier this evening when we were
honoring our retirees. Director Williams, you have—

KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I neglected to note, at the Operations Committee meeting, we had a nice report
about this type of stuff, about employee retention and the efforts that are being made. And so I apologize
for neglecting that, and the staff has been really-- has been really good about looking at that. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any other comments? Director Sloan?

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I have a brief comment. Thank you, Chair Guissinger for recognize me and also
for reading this statement earlier tonight in connection with our honoring tonight's retirees.

The Board will just take this opportunity in a small way at meetings designated by the Chair to express our
appreciation for our employees who are the lifeblood of our agency and from public comment tonight for
Mr. Bamber. They're also the personality of the agency.

So I would just like to thank-- this was a group effort, and I would like to thank them. Directors Catlin,
Guzman, Ruscha were all involved in creating this statement of appreciation. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Do we give retirees any sort of certificate or "Thank You for Your Years of
Service," or anything like that that comes from the Board side?

SPEAKER: This is [INAUDIBLE]. We give them a plaque, but they have to request it. So there's a form that
they fill out, and then if they choose to receive a plaque, we have one created for them. But some retirees
choose not to have one made.

BOBBY DISHELL: The extent this is a process improvement not requiring much action, it would be great if
we could also include this language and that if we could just send people the plaque and not make them fill
out an extra form when they're retiring. And if they don't want it, that's fine, but it seems like it's an easy win
for employee ownership.

SPEAKER: We can definitely look at that. I will say that we improved the process a couple of years ago
because people were returning the plaques. They didn't want them.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Back in the day, people would come in, and we'd have a hole recognition. Mr.
Worthen or others would recognize the people who had worked for them, and the Board was able to
recognize them. So as we start coming back and people start coming out, that may start happening again.
Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Do we have a mechanism for allowing retirees to come back and
substitute or whatever for whatever they were working on? We have?

LYNN GUISSINGER: I see some nodding heads. Ms. Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And Director Broom, we have our part-time
retirees that we leverage as it relates to service delivery.

[ KATE WILLIAMS:] You're going to have to come back.
[LAUGHTER]

LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe I see Director Catlin's hand.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to say that this was an easy initiative to support,
and I wanted to thank Director Sloan for initiating this originally but also for Directors Ruscha and Guzman
for their very thoughtful edits to the recognition.

And I'm, again, very proud to have my name associated with this initiative, and I don't think we can do
enough to appreciate our employees. And if this is a small token, it's just one step toward letting them know
how important they are to this organization. Thank you.

Thank you. I think we all agree. All right. I'll now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this motion?
Seeing none, with 14 yes votes, zero no votes, and one absence, the motion passes.

All right. We are down to the report of Director activities. Does anyone have activities you would like to
report on for the month of March? Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. We've already had several people acknowledge
that the American Public Transportation Association legislative conference was held in DC, and as the
Chair of the APTA Transit Board Members Committee, I attended, and spoke, and moderated several of
the sessions.

And I'm happy to report that we had something like 800 people in attendance at the legislative conference.
That's the largest leg conference that APTA has had in its history.

And then secondly, the Council for Transportation and the Environment presented a zero-emission vehicles
one-on-one conference last week in Atlanta with 46 agencies and 21 vendors. And attended that conference
and have provided to the Board and to General Manager/CEO Johnson to AGM [ Wortham ] a seven-page
report relative to that, which I will not attempt to summarize here. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Director Tisdale. Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. On March 27, I was able to appear at the Westminster City Council
meeting along with our Northwest Rail Peak Service Study leader-- it that Patrick Stanley? Is that his name?
Yeah, OK-- and give a presentation to the City Council regarding the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study,
a call for projects, and the Fare Study and Equity Analysis.

It went very well. Thanks to staff for the assistance in that regard.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. It ended this quarter's-- or soon to be this past quarter's-- meeting of the
RTD Salaried Pension Plan as well as the RTD Defined Contribution Plan, Defined Benefit Plan and Defined
Contribution Plan, both plans. It was a great meeting.

I think I would-- to the extent you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. And I would
anticipate and encourage folks to think through is that number that will ask the Board to allocate towards
those pension plans comes up-- that will be probability Q3, Q4 this year-- that you keep in mind the TABOR
ratchet-down effect that is currently looming and our ability to have excess funds to meet certain employee
needs today that can be invested in the magic of compound investing and compounding numbers and time
versus the funds we may have available to us in the future.

So I'll probably bring that reminder back in Q2 and Q3 after those meetings as well. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just want to report for District C. I have met with City Councilman Amanda Sandoval
and discussed going before the Land Use, Transportation, and Infrastructure Committee she shares with
the Denver City Council. And I am working with staff on that as well as engaging other community members,
other community groups.
I did sit on the panelist of questioners for the State of Our Streets Mayoral Forum in Montebello this month,
so it's been quite entertaining to be part of the Board and be involved in the politics of our great city, Denver.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. All righty. Other matters? Does anyone have any other matters
to bring before the Board tonight? I see Director Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Only because Director Bouquet couldn't figure out the speak button.
[LAUGHTER]

JULIEN BOUQUET: I clicked it, for the record.

BOBBY DISHELL: OK. All kidding aside, it's great to be back in person. For those who aren't aware, the
city and county of Denver, in case you haven't gotten a bunch of texts, is having an election in the next
week or so. This provides-- there are a number of seats open. There are a number of contested seats, and
there are-- well, one dropped out. At least one dropped out. There are 16 mail-in options.

For those of us who-- A, please vote. Please remember that this is a great opportunity from a government
affairs standpoint for us as a Board, as a policymaking body, to go to our largest city in a time of transition
and really be there for them and help educate them on our system to the extent that folks who represent
Denver or don't represent Denver want to work together on ways to have a more robust engagement plan
with that group. I would be happy to participate in that conversation.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks for the reminder. Director Bouquet?

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, thank you very much, Chair. It looks like I have been able to actually select that
speaker option, so that's always a win.

I'm just looking at the very beginning of our agenda where it says "Please note that only members of the
Board, senior and selected RTD staff will be in person." I guess public comment and participation was
through Zoom or virtual. I guess my question would be, do we have plans to eventually have public comment
and participation in person, or are we going to go forward where public comment and participation will be
through Zoom when we are in person?

LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that is a very good question. I hope we have plans. We always had people
who came down here. Is there any decision on that at this point? Is there a reason?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may-- and thank you very much, Director Bouquet, for the question- I would like to acknowledge that it's not just members of staff. We do have other representation here. We
have Lance Longenbohn, who serves as the Present of ATU 1001.

And more specifically to the question posed, as it relates to where we are in the presidential emergency
orders, we are making strides to open up our offices, and we are transitioning fully as we go forward. So I
would anticipate that we would have public comment, but I would also state that I think it would be beneficial
that we offer both in-person and the virtual option for the betterment of public engagement. So I would offer
that up for your consideration. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I think we would all agree. I see a
lot of heads nodding. We want to encourage as much public participation as we can. Anything else?

JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm good. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: [LAUGHS] OK. Second Vice Chair Davidson?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. It's going to be no surprise what I want to highlight from our
retreat this weekend. [LAUGHS] But I'll keep talking about it. At the retreat this weekend, we did talk about
some policy matters that this Board believed were important to address this year and in the coming years.

One of those was, specifically, the diversification of funding and exploring how we might increase or
diversify funding away from being strictly dependent on our sales and use tax, which remains one high risk
to this agency and also a bit unusual in the world of transit, even within the United States.
We had a healthy discussion around what might be done to research various topics. Also, to create some
organization around this, I have committed to work with the Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee,
Doug Tisdale, and also, I would-- I'm looking at our CFO, Doug MacLeod-- look forward to partnering with
our Creative Finance team this year.

Thanks to the very hard work of the last two years of a very skilled Finance team and the creativity of folks
like Mr. Brenden Morgan, who's not here this evening, we do have a very solid financial foundation to build
upon. But this is a very, very high risk for RTD as this region continues to grow, so just to emphasize to
staff, to members of the public, and to this Board that will be one priority for us moving forward.

Additionally related, we discussed the importance of having TABOR impact mitigation strategies. We do
have an Ad Hoc Committee for TABOR, but one of my recommendations would be that we consider adding
this as a discussion item to a future Finance and Planning meeting in the near future to discuss all of the
actions that we need to take to gain clarity around what the official stance of this Board is and also to model
out various scenarios of how TABOR may or may not impact us with the looming ratchet-down effect.

So look forward to working with the Finance and Planning Committee, the Ad Hoc TABOR Committee, as
well as our Finance team and ask all of our Board members to work very closely on this as we engage with
constituents and the public. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So speaking of community engagement, as you may know,
we receive a lot of emails either to the Board Office or to us directly as Directors, and I just wanted to
acknowledge that, that we do hear quite a bit from the community. And I encourage everyone in the
community to continue emailing us.

I think we get very valuable feedback. I'm certainly doing my best to respond to every single one, and
sometimes folks copy multiple Board members. So I guess, to add to that-- and when we engage the Board
Office, my hope is that those email addresses are captured and that when we do our community outreach,
especially in regards to the-- what was the-- Respect the Ride effort, that outreach effort, that these folks
are reached out to as part of that effort.

And I'm wondering-- so I guess the question is, do we keep those email addresses? And then are they able- do we reach out to them as part of this effort?

LYNN GUISSINGER: It's a very good question. I think one of the things we talked about in terms of the
broader community engagement as well that we were talking about in the retreat is figuring out the best
way to bring feedback back to the agency and having a central way of doing it. Ms. Johnson, any advice
for Director Rosenthal's question?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair, and thank you, Director Rosenthal, for your
inquiry. We utilize the customer resource management software, and our customer engagement team
leverages that. So when something comes in and we use the platform at Salesforce. We capture that
information.

And oftentimes, what we do-- recognizing there are several conduits which can be utilized, there is a crossreference to individuals whose names are available. And more specifically, we do have a database. We
have to keep in mind that when people do sign up for certain subscription notifications and things of the like
they need to let us know that they want to participate because in some instances, if you're registering some
kind of fare media, things or the like you may not want to be receiving various notifications and things of
the like.

So within that framework, yes, for those that have basically authorized us to use their emails for specific
purposes we do leverage that in reference to notifications. And to your point, yes, those individuals will be

included in communique relative to engagement activities for RTD, and we keep them for service change
information and other pertinent elements that relate to our transit service delivery. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any other questions? Mr. Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: I guess my preference is that we would ask them. Because a lot of people who have
contacted us to let us know their position on any number of issues that they've been having in terms of
service or their experience, I think we should just send them the email about the Respect the Ride anyway,
whether they have asked to be included on that email list or not because that was very important to them
to contact us about those issues.

And I'm assuming that they would like that, and if they don't want to be included, I'm sure they would email
us back and say, please take me off your list. So I think the default is the opposite. That's my perspective.
Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: So I guess that raises the question in my mind of whether-- if we send something in,
I guess, to the Board Office, does that go into the sales force? If somebody is writing us with issues, is that
captured? I'm sorry?

BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE] privacy. Sorry. I was just saying, there's a new CPIA, the new Colorado
Privacy Information Act, and to my knowledge, based on reports from legal professionals in the industry,
you are not allowed to auto-enroll people in a email subscription. So they would need to affirmatively get
their affirmative enthusiastic consent in order to enroll them in an email list. So if any state legislators, feel
free to call them, and you're welcome to work with them to change that rule.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, that's what I was alluding to, Director Rosenthal. So of course
we're not trying to limit engagement, but specifically, when we do register individuals, we ask them, do they
want to be involved if they're registering certain fare media and things of the like?
So to answer your question, any individual that's contacting us outside of that, yes, they will be included.
But for all intents and purposes for what Director Dishell outlined, we do not want to ensure that we are not
adhering to privacy law. So thank you.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thanks. If I could just finish up then. Then would it be appropriate in the future, any
time I respond to someone, say, would you like to be included on our email list for further communications?
Then they can respond and say, yes, please include me. Is that right? And that would provide their consent?
OK.

Thank you. And I think, again, this is important. We receive emails all the time, and so this is really critical
that we include their opinions. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And this is sort of like the Service Change where it was-- it's really handy to be able
to say, please-- I answer them, but then I say, if you don't mind sending this to service.changes@rtd-denver.

So if we all have the link for wherever Code of Conduct comments are going, that's the easiest thing. Then
you don't have to send it to the Board Office. They don't have to deal it. You just say, you know what? My
suggestion-- I'll pass this on if you want, but my suggestion is you send it on to this. Yes, ma'am?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. There will be a designated website, and you'll be getting that
communique because this is going to be very engaging, and people that are interested can actually go
online and fill out that information accordingly.

We're just getting-- I'm getting a little ahead of ourselves. I'm giving you a sneak preview without having
everything fully vetted. But it's forthcoming, and you will get that communique so you have an understanding
of how to best communicate with your constituents. I just want to iterate we're all on the same page here,
and I agree that we want to ensure that we have a robust engagement period. Thank you.

Thank you. Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a quickie point of interest. Back to our discussion
earlier, the largest item traditionally for sales tax is an automobile, so the Public Transit Agency actually
exists in a real dichotomy that we want to get people out of their cars. And the more people we get out of
their cars, the less income we have to run our service. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: No, we want them out of their cars, but they can own them and register them, right?
[LAUGHTER]

KATE WILLIAMS: They can just buy them because they look good. Yeah, right. No.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Director Dishell?

BOBBY DISHELL: On the buying cars thing, many of the new EVs that have vehicle-to-grid capacity on a
dollar-for-dollar basis are less expensive for the kilowatt battery amperage they can provide to your home,
so maybe we can just sell electric batteries that way.
Substantively, I wanted to build on Director Rosenthal's point. It would be great to get, Ms. Johnson, from
you, or Stuart, or someone on your team, just a list of the outreach efforts that are going on and the ways
people can contribute. And then I can just drop it in my email signature.

And we know we just voted on May service changes, which means we're about to start getting comments
on August service changes. If there's just a summarized-- I see Stuart nodding his head-- email of all the
things that we could just-- we could have to reference, that would be lovely.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.

BOBBY DISHELL: Great.

DEBRA JOHNSON: And the communique that you'll get about this will list all of that out for you. So yes,
thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: [SPEAKING SPANISH]

I want to thank the RTD staff for doing this work in Spanish as well because it is really important for me to
be able to communicate with my community in a language that they need. So I just wanted to point that out
and say thank you. It's really important.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And it's an important thing to notice, so thank you. That's great. All right. Any other
matters? All right. Executive sessions, in a moment, the Board will—

DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, a point of order.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I believe it is procedurally permissible and appropriate for one motion to
proceed into executive session for the articulated topics pursuant to the enumerated statutory authorities
that are set forth in agenda items 20, 21, and 22 in the published agenda, each session to be conducted
separately with separate records made, and that following the conclusion of the third executive session,
which is agenda item 22, the Board would then stand adjourned, without necessity of returning to open
session or a separate motion to adjourn.
If I am correct in my understanding, I would make that motion now.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Second. Actually, that's the way we were going to proceed. So we have three
executive sessions. We are going to have a single motion, and we will adjourn before we go. So hang on,
everybody. [LAUGHS] So let me just get there.
All right. The Board will meet in three executive sessions for the battery-electric bus project and New Flyer
contract, the Denver Transit Partners LLC versus RTD litigation, and the March 11 W Line derailment. I'd
like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the main Board meeting will be
deemed adjourned after the Board adjourned from the three executive sessions.

I will now, in just a moment, entertain a motion to move into the three executive sessions to discuss the
following-- the battery-electric bus project and New Flyer contract pursuant to sections 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS
to receive legal advice and section 24-6-402(4)(e) CRS for determining positions relative to matters that
may be subject to negotiations, the Denver Transit Partners LLC versus RTD litigation pursuant to section
24-6-402(4)(b) CRS to receive legal advice and section 24-6-402(4)(e) CRS for determining positions
relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations, and thirdly, the March 11, 2023 W Line derailment
pursuant to section 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS to receive legal advice and section 24-6-402(4)(c) CRS.

Matters required to be kept confidential by state law and rules section 40-18-104 CRS and 7 CCR 723-7,
Public Utilities Commission Rules 73, 49(d)(1) and 4, Confidentiality of Light Rail Vehicle Accident
Investigations.

Do we have a motion to move?

DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.

KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Tisdale and the second from Director Williams. We need 10 directors
to vote in the affirmative. Are there any no votes to proceeding with the executive sessions?
Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: I just want to make sure we can include a restroom break in here somewhere.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. We can do that right now. Let's get this vote done, and then we'll come back.
Are there any no votes? Seeing none, the motion passes 14 to 0. We will take it-- it looks like 12 after. Let's
take 5 minutes for a restroom break, and we will come back.

We will be in executive session when we come back. So only the people who are authorized to be in the
first executive session on the New Flyer buses should please be in attendance.

