Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2009
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

September 15, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held
September 15, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D

*****
Board
Members Present:

Directors
Absent:

Chair Tayer, Vice-Chair James, Director Bagley, Director Brohl,
Director Busck, Director Chacon, Director Cohen, Director Daly,
Director Kemp, Director Martinez, Director McMullen, Director
O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tobiassen.

Director Christopher

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Marla Lien, Teresa Sedmak, Robert Merriman, Terry
Howerter, David Genova, Scott Reed, Julie Skeen, Steve Fisher,
Trent Ratcliff, Bruce Abel, Liz Telford, Cal Shankster, Stan Szabelak,
Mike Gil, Bruce Abel, Susan Cohen, Lisa Trujillo, Paula Perdue,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Rick Clarke.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib, Roger Sherman and Mike Turner

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Tayer called the Financial Administration Committee to order at 5:32
p.m.
I.

RTD Diversity Council
Phil Washington, Interim General Manager framed this item and introduced Jewell
Underwood, RTD EEO Officer.
Jewel introduced members of the RTD Diversity Council and gave a snapshot of what
they are embarking on.
They have spent weeks on developing a plan that will create
two things 1) Adopting a school –tutoring and mentoring plan and 2) going to get back
into the spirit of giving through a Christmas gift exchange. All have attended diversity
seminars and will continue to engage. Jewell invited the board to a Diversity Training
experience on Wednesday, September 30, 2009 at 11:30 am – 4:30 p.m.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2009
Page 2 of 6

Members of the Diversity Council are: Daria Serna, Doug Stanton, Beverly Traylor, Daren
Douglas, Ed Gonzales, Cheryl Sprague, and Shirley Bennett. Diane Preihs and Michael
Washington were not present.
Although the program is starting off consisting of salaried council, represented
employees will be involved in the events.
Director Brohl commented that for diversity councils to work there needs to be a tie into
Sr. Staff. Phil Washington informed the board that he is the Executive Sponsor and the
Sr. Manager of Human Resources also serves on the committee.
Director Busck suggested putting together a resolution in support of the Diversity
Council.

II.

Recommended Actions

a. IT Contingency Work Order Contract Final One-Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award a contract amendment to initiate the fourth and final one-year option
with Ciber as well as incrementally increasing the total contract upset limit an
additional $475,000 to extend the contract for IT Technical and Management
Support Services (15DK008). This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to
Ciber through the competitive bid process totally separate from the ERP effort.
The contract allowed for an initial year plus four one-year options to renew
based on positive performance by the vendor. Through negotiations, Ciber has
agreed to reduce their billing rate 9% for the remainder of the current option
year through the term of the final option year ending April 25, 2011.
Trent Ratcliff, IT Infrastructure Manager/Interim Manager of IT and Terry
Howerter discussed this item with the board.
Motion:

Director Daly made a motion to
forward the item to the September
22, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director
motion.

McMullen

seconded

the

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed with 1 against
(Kemp). This item will be placed under
Recommended
Action
on
the

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2009
Page 3 of 6

September
Agenda.

22nd

Board

Meeting

b. 2010-2015 Transit Development Program (TDP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt the 2010-2015 Transit Development Program (TDP).
Terry Howerter presented this item to the board. This item has been talked
about for the last couple of months and options that were discussed are
included.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to
forward the item to the September
22, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda

Second:

Director Kemp seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
Director Martinez asked how close we were to July projections and the actual
that came in for July. Terry Howerter indicated that we missed projections – it
came in at 11.4% - down from prior year same month. We were looking for
7% - some of this is attributed to the cash for clunkers program. Terry will
continue projections 10% or less through year end.
Director Martinez then thanked staff for reworking numbers.
Chair Tayer asked that we monitor the gas fuel lock closely.
C. Adoption of 2010 Performance Measures
Robert Merriman presented this item to the board. Each year the RTD Board
adopts a vision and mission statement, goals, objectives, and specific
performance measures. These measures provide a framework in which RTD can
determine how will it provides service to its passengers and the citizens of the
District. A report detailing year-to-date performance on each of these measures
is presented to the Board of Directors at the end of each quarter.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2010 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.

Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to
forward the item to the September
22, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2009
Page 4 of 6

Second:

Director
motion.

McMullen

seconded

the

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

III. July 2009 Financial Status Report
Most of this information was covered in Terry’s comments on sales tax. Robert
Merriman mentioned that the year to day run rate is down 14.2% from the prior year. It
would not have been as bad if there hadn’t been 2.4 million in adjustments this year.
These adjustments relate to the issue of customized software. The amended budget has
been incorporated.
Director Bagley had questions on page 28 regarding operating expenses. The numbers
have significantly changed since previously.
Terry indicated that this is due to
incorporating the amended budget. Robert mentioned that it could also be permanent
savings.
IV. 2010 Budget Study/Discussion
Robert Merriman presented this item to the board. It is a balanced plan – worked
extensively so it materially aligns with TDP and has implemented in it suggestions that
we discussed together.
Next Steps – according to Colorado State Law we will post for public and advertise and
make available for inspection in the month of October. We will come back in November
with a budget to be recommended to the full board. The hearing will be on November
17th and that will complete the process.
Director Bagley had a question on page 34 – under new capital – why is it 583 million.
Terry indicated this is a combination of DUS and West Corridor Projects.
V. Second Quarter 2009 Performance Report
Robert Merriman indicated that all goals were made – 95% of these are year to date
measurements. Three we did not make are recession related: Increase for ridership,
farebox revenue and service reductions.

VI. Potential Revenue Source Review
Terry Howerter covered this item. During research of the Board’s list of possible new
sources, it was brought to the attention of Staff that the Sate of Colorado and certain
other Colorado governmental entities have, or soon will, temporarily eliminate the 303%
timely filing discount (Vendor Allowance) offered to vendors on their tax collections.
The RTD 2010 Requested Budget is projecting $349.9 million in RTDE sales tax
collections for the Base and FasTracks combines 1% sales tax collections. The
temporary elimination of this discount could provide additional annual sales tax revenue
of over $10.0 million per year to RTD. Staff would recommend that this be a high

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2009
Page 5 of 6

priority item as it could resolve a large portion of the 2011 and 2012 required operating
expense reductions.
Another item they are looking at is advertising – an RFP is out and the review is due the
22nd.
Chair Tayer appreciates the fact that staff has given thoughts to these items to try to
identify resources. John asked what can be expected in terms of concession revenues,
lease revenues and right of way leasing. Terry – these are three primary areas of interest.
Vendor allowance is on top of list and as time permits the three will be included in the
next round.
VII. Alternative Sales Tax Forecasting Techniques
Terry talked about sales methodology and projections and referenced a letter sent out by
Interim General Manager Phil Washington. We use Colorado Office of State planning and
budget projections and (CLC) Colorado Legislative Council projections in developing our
sales tax forecast. Next update is due out September 21st. Will review and make changes
accordingly.
In addition, sales taxes are discussed with the Cities in the District on a regular basis.
Staff wants to present a clear understandable forecasting tool to show methodology. In
packet are the 2008-2010 projections.
Terry indicated that they looking newer forecasting tools: one is a linier regression model.
Staff is currently in the process of reviewing forecasting tool and supporting details. It
uses sales tax history and personal income from state demography office. Using two
variables does not give us as strong a tool as we are currently using. Cities only project
out two years.
Director Kemp thanked Terry for the approach being used on this analysis.
information is very critical and it’s apparent a lot of work has been done.

This

Terry will present ranges to the board if they request. This is one of the lessons learned.
Barb asked how using ranges will benefit us. Terry responded that from the base side –
when we would give ranges they would be where we are at with our current revenues and
capital programs and what we may be able to move from future years back in the current
if we had more sales tax revenues. It would be a planning tool as to what we could do
now that was planned for future periods or what we cannot do as the current situation is
quite often.
Phil Washington indicated that the memo is to educate the board on the methodology and
the other piece is when cites talk about their forecasting they are talking 3 to 6 years we
are talking 25 plus.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on September 15, 2009
Page 6 of 6

Director Martinez dittoed Director Kemps comments on work and due diligence. We have
been unfairly criticized and referenced a recent article in the paper. When we have an
issue we have miscalculated.
Director O’Boyle echoed same remarks.
Director Busck commented that staff is doing a great job. When you have a base year and
things are going good and the next year things fall down and then the next year growth is
shown you are still not up to the base year. We need to establish a base year on what is
the average income we need to maintain to provide services we have existing and to
complete capital projects that we are going to do in the near future. Staff needs to tell the
Board. Establish what base year is and then project from there either up or down.
Chair Tayer appreciates the conversation and thanked staff. It is important to realize how
all mechanisms come into play.
Director McMullen commented that we have a plan we are looking at future. It’s our
people who put this together - we are in a pretty good spot today – great meeting.
VIII. Sales Tax Collection Review Services
Terry discussed talked about this item and how it relates back to an RPF we put out a
couple months ago to bring in a firm to review sales tax collections. Robert Merriman had
awarded an RFP to Union Services to a California firm to review sales tax collections - we
did receive the green light initial indication from Department of Revenue that this could
work, but after getting further into the process it was determined that the strict
interpretation of existing statutes was interpreted relative to confidentiality of tax payer
records. It was determined Union Services could not do this for us as a contractor and still
stay within existing laws.
IX. Other Matters
Director Daly introduced Mike Gil, New Assistant General Manager of Operations.
Terry informed the board that there will be a State Audit at RTD – it has been three since
last audit. They will focus on salaried for top management at RTD and review salaries,
contracts and may take a small look or large look at cost modeling system here at RTD.
Information on the State Audit was included in the General Managers Report.
X. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be
October 13, 2009.
XI. Adjourn – The Board adjourned to FasTracks Monitoring Committee at 6:50 p.m.

