Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

October 16, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
October 16 at 5:30 p.m. in the RTD room

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
All 15 members were present.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were four retirees. Willard Eickhoff, Senior Technical Instructor was present to receive
his award and received a standing ovation from the Board. Mr. Eickhoff thanked RTD for a
rewarding career and shared what he thinks is a challenge to keep the headcount up for diesel
and electric mechanics.
Special Recognition
Ann Rajewska and Elena Wilkins with CASTA presented RTD with three photographs of the
RTD refurbished bus. Cal Marsella complimented CASTA on the positive working relationship
between RTD and CASTA.
Cal Marsella shared information on the AIA 25 Year Award that RTD received.
Acknowledgement-Light Rail Roadeo
Bruce Daly recognized the following participant winners in the light rail roadeo.
Transportation:
LRV Maintenance:
1st Place:
Newt Williams
1st Place:
George Sweeney
nd
2 Place:
Narciso Garcia
2nd Place: Gary Welch
3rd Place:
Carl Hall
3rd Place:
Scott Sandoval
George Sweeney, Scott Sandoval, Newt Williams, Narciso Garcia and Carl Hall were all present
to be recognized. Director Daly asked them to describe the competition where a raw egg is
placed and the driver must pull the train as close as possible without breaking the egg. Another
interesting competition was the mystery box in which they were given 10 unknown
components that they had to identify.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Former Board Director and current Councilwoman, Mary Blue of Longmont, read a letter of
endorsement from the Mayor of Longmont for DMU technology citing upfront capital costs,
facilities, FasTracks budgetary concerns and insignificant differences in noise impact between
DMU and EMU as factors leading to this endorsement.
Louise Benson, Broomfield, and candidate for City Council, expressed concern on DMU
technology and requested a 6-12 month delay to obtain further public input.

Bob Wilson, Arvada, who had provided a copy of an article titled “It’s not your Grandfather’s
Diesel”, to the Board talked about his desire to retire and live close to transit in a clean
environment. He expressed there are many options and technological advancements that will
support the use of DMU or whatever technology is chosen.
Bill Cronenberg, Longmont, stated that trains are his passion and provided reasons to consider
DMU: (1) Vulnerability of electric power for electric trains (i.e. rolling blackouts as experienced
in Sacramento, CA) (2) Cost to provide overhead catenary (3) Public accessibility and the
negative impact that electric wires would have to property values and overall aesthetics.
Pam Beckhorn spoke about the proposed Pine Junction park-n-ride closure. She expressed
skepticism over the reasons provided for the closure and talked about projected growth along
that corridor as provided by CDOT as reason for maintaining the park-n-ride in Pine Junction.
Pam raised a number of questions related to what is the plan for that site, can the Mountain
View park-n-ride support the incremental traffic volume and if the Board make joint decisions
or rely on the recommendations from the staff.
Cathy Kiser, Pine Junction, expressed a desire to keep the Pine Junction park-n-ride open and
to keep the U route. Cathy shared that in inclement weather the drive up to Pine Junction
could be in excess of thirty minutes.
Gary Zilek, Pine Junction, expressed his belief that more people would ride the bus if there
were more options available to them and he is against the closing of the U route. He stated
that last year during the snowstorm, the Pine Junction park-n-ride was the only site that was
accessible and that this is the only site that provides a staging area for the buses.
Garry Hinderliter, Thornton, expressed his support for the DMU technology and stated that as
a California expatriate he has witnessed first hand the effect of the rolling blackouts on
resources and the community. He stated the visual impact and reliability as reasons for
supporting DMU technology.
Gary Fiske, Pine Junction, referred to the petition with 75 signatures that had been previously
submitted to the Board and showed overwhelming support for this park-n-ride. He asked why
close a good thing that is working and stated that going backwards is not an option.
Joel Noble, Curtis Park Historic District, stated the primary concern for the commuter rail is
noise and stated his willingness to participate in a focus group if one is established. He
expressed a particular concern with DMU noise as the train takes off due to the use of bus
engines and how it might affect the TOD being considered at 40/40th station.
Russell Greear spoke about the continued overcrowding of route 16 and stated that the
proposed change to add Saturday routes do nothing for the weekday riders. He stated it was
not good for handicapped people to stand and he will sue RTD should someone get hurt from
standing on this bus.
Robert Baxter, Pine Junction, requested reconsideration for the closure of the Pine Junction
park-n-ride. He feels the decision to close is based on some erroneous assumptions which he
disputed. He also iterated that Pine Junction is as much a part of the “District” as Denver,
thus the word “Regional” in Regional Transportation District.
Irene Fouts, Bailey, made references to correspondence that she had received from Director
Daly and stated why in her opinion his arguments did not fly. She requested reconsideration of
the decision to close the Pine Junction park-n-ride.

Rich Breed, Lakewood, is a route U rider who requested reconsideration of the elimination of
route U.
The US 36 MCC Group represented by several members including Mayor Chuck Gish, Mayor of
Louisville, Chris McShane, Westminister, Mayor Nancy McNally, Mayor of Westminster,
George Greshem, Transportation Planning for Boulder, Debra Basket, Transportation Planning
for the City and County of Broomfield, and Martha Rassha, City of Boulder, provided their
support of the DMU technology. While providing support, members of the US 36 Coalition
requested a commitment to the environmental issues expressly as stated in the Responsible
Rail Amendment which would be brought forth by Director Tayer as part of the technology
selection for the North Metro and Northwest Rail Corridor.
Sheree Ramallipa, Bailey, spoke on behalf of keeping the Pine Junction park-n-ride open and
stated she would have more concerns from a safety perspective trying to drive to the
Mountain View facility than trusting the RTD professional drivers at Pine Junction park-n-ride.
Mike Olds, Fort Lupton, had several questions on the UP relocation to Fort Lupton and
emphasized the need for a full environmental impact statement by UP. He also wanted to
know if any of the money given to UP for relocation had Federal funding. Cal Marsella
indicated he would follow up with Mike.
Jolynn Pryor, Bailey, expressed the importance of the Pine Junction park-n-ride and shared her
safety concerns of trying to get into and out of US 285.
Bob Briggs provided his support for DMU and felt it will be very instrumental to the project he
is working to provide transportation to the rest of the state that would go from Casper
Wyoming to the New Mexico borders.
Bill Roettker, Boulder, representing the Sierra Club, offered his support of the hybrid buses and
EMU as the preferred technology. Short of selection of the EMU, he strongly advocated for
the Responsible Rail Amendment which addressed quiet zones and environmentally clean
vehicles.
Susan Gunn, a graduate student at the University of Colorado Urban Planning, stated she rides
in excess of 20 hours per week and uses this time to be productive. She read a letter
expressing concern for burden being placed on the riders, lack of attention to the projected
growth along US 285 and safety concerns with large volume of drivers on the road.
Glen Hanniken, Pine Junction, started by referencing the RTD Mission Statement and the
feeling that the closure of the Pine Junction park-n-ride runs counter to this mission. He
disputed the reasons provided for the closure and encouraged the Board to reconsider this
decision.
Hod Hudson stated he represented the hood where all this technology would emerge together.
He had received over 9 pages of faxes opposing the DMU and encouraged responsible
decision making as EMU/DMU get woven into the network.
Ken Scott, Upper Larimer Neighborhood Associated, stated his community would be receiving
the brunt of all these technologies as the maintenance facility is planned for their
neighborhood. He requested a delay on the technology until the EIS for the maintenance
facility had been completed.
Councilwoman Judy Montero, District 9, expressed extreme disappointment in the
recommendation of DMU. She felt that DMU would have long term negative repercussions
and felt the issues had gotten somewhat misconstrued as a comparison between whether
DMU or EMU was cleaner when in reality the comparison had always been if DMU is cleaner

than other forms of locomotives. She cited noise levels, pollution and other environmental
concerns in her opposition to DMU. She felt the public had spoken loudly in favor of EMU.
Haven Guenthrer, Bailey, spoke in favor of keeping the Pine Junction park-n-ride open and to
not eliminate the route U.
Keith Howard, Sunnyside United Neighborhood, felt the discussion should be framed around
the issue of sustainability. DMU was not sustainable or benign. He requested the Board to
consider all possible alternative fuel sources and delay the design decision until a determination
of what type of diesel fuel would be used.
David York, Denver, stated that DMU would have a severe negative impact to the
neighborhoods in District 9. The people had voted for EMU, not DMU and were concerned
about the noise, pollution, and other variables that could affect the quality of life.
Brent Belisle, DCIL, requested status and follow-up to his request to move the bus stop closer
to the Independent Living facility. Director McMullen commented after the public participation
that RTD is evaluating a possible solution and would get back to him.
Pat Mauro, Bailey, reiterated the position of several of the speakers to keep the Pine Junction
park-n-ride open.
Martin Wirth, Bailey, spoke on behalf of keeping the Pine Junction park-n-ride open and stated
that if the concern was about spending $200K for the grading of the lot, he could do it for half
that. He stated the growth along US 285 is continuous and he felt they would increase the
road hazard on 285 with the projected increase in number of cars traveling that highway. He
also stated he would support a tax for Park County if that would help the issue. He petitioned
for a systematic approach to expanding mass transit versus the piece mill approach of today.
Director Daly addressed his constituents in the area on their concerns for the closure of Pine
Junction park-n-ride and shared information that the Pine Junction park-n-ride is close to
capacity. He thanked the constituents for coming out and showing strength in numbers. He
pointed out that a number of them were not in the district and encouraged them to pursue
getting annexed within the RTD boundary. He also stated that in light of their overwhelming
support to keep the Pine Junction park-n-ride open and the fact that RTD will be implementing
a parking management plan soon, he would request that a decision to close the Pine Junction
site is deferred until after the Parking Management plan is implemented.
Cal Marsella provided further clarity on the Parking Management program stating that under
this program, people who were out of the district would be asked to pay for parking. The
amendment that Director Daly is taking forward is to keep the Pine Junction park-n-ride open
until after the Parking Management plan is implemented, the impact of the ridership is
determined, and action taken to annex into the RTD district.
Bill Porter later clarified that the cost for grading is approximately $26K and the 200K is to
make recommended safety and lighting improvements.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no updates for the committee reports.
Director Elfenbein reminded everyone that the DRCOG would be moving into their new facilities
off 13th and Broadway in November.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER 25, 2007
MOTION:
Director Busck moved for the adoption of the September 25,
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and
0 against. Director Quinlan had been out of the country and did
not vote.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. APTA Annual Meeting in Charlotte
Cal Marsella shared that RTD won the Ad Wheel Award and that he participated in an
interview with the Charlotte Observer while attending the APTA annual meeting.
2. West Corridor Briefing with Senator Allard’s Staff
Cal Marsella participated in a tour of the West Corridor with Senator Allard’s staff and
provided them with a key understanding of the challenges and opportunities with the
West Corridor.
3. Meeting with CDOT Executive Director Russ George on West Corridor
Cal Marsella and Directors Daly, Pulliam and Ruchman met with CDOT along with DRCOG
representative to discuss SB-1 Funding, and House Bill 13 Funding. RTD is working with
JEFCO on additional funding to support the West Corridor requirements. RTD requested
assurance that the cost would not impair the CEI.
4. West Corridor Elected Officials’ Briefing on Friday 10/12
Cal Marsella had an open and productive dialog with the West Corridor Elected Officials
and feels good progress is being made.
5. Meeting with Commerce City Staff on North Metro Corridor
Cal Marsella shared there is a new change in management in Commerce City who are more
engaged in the process. He has met with the new Commerce City Manager and feels this
will be a positive development.
6. Meeting with Commerce City Council on Monday October 22 at 6:00 p.m.
Cal Marsella will attend the Commerce City Council meeting on October 22 to provide a
FasTracks update.
7. Meeting with Holman Carter
Cal Marsella had a positive meeting with Holman Carter and look forward to continuing to
build the relationship between RTD management and the Union.
8. Other Matters
Director Elfenbein noted that Charlotte had elected to go with the new look for their
trains which were more costly while RTD had taken a more utilitarian approach.
Director Christopher complemented Cal on his involvement with the Charlotte Observer
on the issue of running transit tax and being an advocate for transit in other cities.

Director McMullen noted that starting on October 22nd, RTD will be adding a third car to
the 2-car trains due to getting the order ahead of schedule and having the opportunity to
burn the cars in.

VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Director Daly requested that items D is removed from the Unanimous Consent agenda.
MOTION:

Director Elfenbein moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda excluding item D
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2008 Plan Year Salaried Employee Insured Benefits Budget and
authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.
The total estimated cost for the 2008 Salaried Employee Insured Benefits is
$6,147,641, of which the District will pay $5,138,097 (83.6%) and our salaried
employees will contribute the remaining $1,009,543 (16.4%).
The District
contribution to the salaried insured benefits budget is included in the 2008 Requested
Budget.

B.

Exclusion of January 2007 Data from the 2007 Performance Indicator Report
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the exclusion of January 2007 data from the 2007 Performance
Indicator Report.

C.

Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.

E.

Award Contract to provide and install Fuel & Fluid Management and Vehicle Data
Acquisition Systems
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to award a contract to S&A Systems, Inc. (Fleetwatch)
of Rockwall, Texas, a RTD certified SBE, the low cost, most responsive, responsible
and qualified proposer for the purchase of the Fuel & Fluid Management and Vehicle
Data Acquisition Systems (“Systems”) to be installed in RTD bus maintenance facilities
and buses. The Systems are comprised of sensors and controllers, which automatically
collect the vehicle number and mileage, control and report the flow of fuel and
consumable fluids (engine oil, antifreeze, etc) into the buses. The Systems also collect

bus operating and diagnostic data generated by bus components such as engines and
transmissions. The collected data will be sent to the new Maximus maintenance
reporting system to generate preventive maintenance actions. The total cost for the
project is $669,500. The funding for this contract is approved and available in the
District’s 2007 Capital Budget.
IX.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Items D was moved to recommended action for discussion before vote.
D.

Approval of January 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 13, 2008 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$108,100, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.
MOTION:
Director Daly made the motion to accept the approval for
the January 13, 2008 Service Change package with the
amendment to keep the Pine Junction park-n-ride open
until after the Parking Management Program is
implemented and RTD has assessed the impact to
ridership and the annexation efforts.
Director Yamrick seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The Directors complimented the constituents for their
voice and strength in the support of the Pine Junction
park-n-ride.
At the same time, Cal clarified that
approximately 85% of the riders are out of the RTD
District and need to take effort to be annexed to the
district. Director Christopher cautioned that this is a
process and must be a business decision on the type of
service they will receive in the area. It is not anticipated
that this will be a high sales tax base.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

F.

Purchase twenty-five 40 foot and thirteen 30 foot ultra-low sulfur diesel heavy duty
transit buses and five hybrid 40 heavy duty transit buses
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to exercise the option included in Contract 13DK005
with Gillig Corporation for 25 heavy duty ultra-low sulfur diesel low-floor 40 foot
transit buses, 13 heavy duty ultra-low sulfur diesel low-floor 30 foot transit buses
and 5 heavy duty 40 foot hybrid low-floor transit buses at a total cost not to
exceed $14,852,436. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to transfer $1,090,285 from the Transit
Development Reserve Fund to cover the increased cost for the 5 heavy duty lowfloor 40 foot transit buses. With the approved transfer from the Transit
Development Reserve Fund, funding for the purchase of these buses will be
available in the 2007 amended capital and expense budget. It is also recommended

that the District continue to seek additional funding sources for the purchase of
additional hybrid buses.
MOTION:

Director Christopher
made a substitute motion to
purchase ten of the 40 foot and thirteen of the 30 foot
ultra-low sulfur diesel heavy duty transit buses and fifteen
of the hybrid 40 heavy duty buses.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Kemp expressed his support of the hybrid
technology but stated he would abstain from voting since
the company that he works for is directly involved in this
type of alternative fuel technology.
This item was heavily discussed with some Board
members seeing this as RTD’s opportunity to take a
leadership role in sustainability and going green. Other
Board members supported the concept in theory but felt it
was not fiscal responsible nor a good business decision to
use Reserve funds to purchase hybrid buses.
Compelling reasons were provided including making the
right decision, responsibility to the environment and
future growth, and sending a signal to the public.
Director Chacon quoted a saying “you will never get to
second base if you keep your feet on the first.”
Director Christopher asked for clarification on the
difference in the $11M number that he had obtained from
finance and the $5M that had been initially quoted. Joe
Smith provided an explanation.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 7 votes in
favor (Brohl, Chacon, Christopher, Martinez, McMullen,
Ruchman, and Tayer) and 7 against (Busck, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kinton, Pulliam, Quinlan and Yamrick). Director
Kemp citing conflict of interest abstained.
Chair Martinez declared the motion FAILED.

NEW MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to purchase twenty-five
of the 40 foot and thirteen of the 30 foot ultra-low sulfur
diesel heavy duty transit buses and five of the hybrid 40
heavy duty transit buses per the original motion that
passed from the Operations Committee.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 9 votes in
favor (Busck, Daly, Elfenbein, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 5 against (Brohl,
Christopher, Chacon, Martinez and Ruchman)
Director Kemp citing conflict of interest abstained.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

G.

Northwest Rail Technology Recommendation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve Diesel Multiple Units (DMU) as the preferred technology for the
Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation.
MOTION:

Director Christopher made the motion to approve Diesel
Multiple Units as the preferred technology for the
Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

AMENDMENT:

Director Tayer amended the motion to include The
Responsible Rail Amendment.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The Directors complimented John Tayer on his work to
come up with an environmentally sound amendment that
they could support and for being open to their feedback.
Cal Marsella stated that the staff could support this
amendment.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

H.

North Metro DEIS Preferred Alternative
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the preferred alternative for the North Metro Draft Environmental
Impact Statement (DEIS). The preferred Alternative for the North Metro includes
evaluating four “Build” alignments in the DEIS in the southern piece of the corridor
around Sand Creek Junction. The DEIS will also evaluate 18 station options for 8
stations along the corridor. The technology is Diesel Multiple Units.
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to approve Diesel
Multiple Unit as the preferred alternative for the North
Metro Draft Environmental Impact Statement that
included the Responsible Rail Amendment with the
language to state both the North Metro and Northwest
Rail line for the quiet zone evaluation process.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

X.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Elfenbein made the motion to move into Executive
Session for the purpose of discussing Contract NegotiationsDenver Union Station C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

XI.

A voice vote was taken with 15 in favor and 0 against. Chair
Martinez declared the motion passed.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 9:55 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, October 16, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
O’Neill P. Quinlan, Second Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Susan Altes
Rick Clarke
Ron Dodsworth
Phil Eberl
David Genova
Jennifer Heisler
John Dawson
Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella

District B
District J
District G
District D
District I
District K
District C
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Paula Perdue
Bill Porter
Chris Quinn
Liz Rao
Scott Reed
Scott Roberts
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
Dave Shelley
John Shonsey

OTHERS PRESENT:
Mary Blue, Councilwoman and former RTD Board Member
Louise Benson
Bob Wilson
Bill Cronenberg
Pam Beckhorn
Cathy Kiser
Gary Zilek
Garry Hinderliter
Gary Fiske
Joel Noble
Russell Greear
Robert Baxter
Irene Fouts
Rich Breed
Chuck Gish, US 36 MCC Group
Chris McShane, US 36 MCC Group
Nancy McNally, US 36 MCC Group
George Greshem, US 36 MCC Group

Joe Smith
Henry Stopplecamp
Stan Szabelak
Liz Telford
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Mike Turner
Phil Washington
Susan Wood
Dean Shaklee

Debra Basket, US 36 MCC Group
Martha Rassha, US 36 MCC Group
Sheree Ramallipa
Mike Olds
Jolynn Pryor
Bob Briggs, former RTD Board Member
Susan Gunn
Glen Hanniken
Hod Hudson
Kevin Scott, Upper Larimer
Judy Montero, Councilwoman
Haven Guenthrer
Keith Howard, Sunnyside United Neighborhood
David York
Brent Belisle, DCIL
Pat Mauro
Martin Wirth
Carl Hall, RTD
Newt Williams, RTD
Narcisco Garcia, RTD
George Sweeney, RTD
Scott Sandoval, RTD
Willard Eickhoff, RTD Retiree
Ken Smith, CCA
Melissa Barnes
Steve Barnes
Jon Esty, Colorado Rail
Ann Rajewska, CASTA
Elena Wilkins, CASTA
Jeanne Shreve, Adams County
Tex Elam
Angie Garcia
Ed Colby, Washington Group
Matt Lutkus, City of Westminster
Amy Schiller
Irene Glazer, HUNI
Roger Sherman

