Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on March 5, 2007
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 19, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting held
on March 5, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D

***
Committee Members
Present:
Dave Ruchman, Chair; Noel Busck, Vice-Chair, Juanita
Chacon, Bill Christopher, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp,
Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Marla Lien, Larry Warner, Susan Altes,
Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Bill Van Meter, Dennis Cole, John
Shonsey, Kevin Diviness, Rick Clarke, Roger Sherman, Stan
Szabelak, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jeff Leib, Robert Kochevar, L.W. Morrow
***

Call to Order:

Vice-Chair Busck called the meeting to order at 5:07 p.m.

I. Updates

Property Acquisition at 17th Street and CML for Light Rail at DUS – Marla
Lien, General Counsel presented this update item.
Union Station
Neighborhood Company took out an option on some property by Denver
Union Station for the eventual improvements to the Consolidated Main Line
(CML) and light rail. Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) must
close on the option by May 11, 2007. USNC will be looking for a back to
back close to facilitate the financing. RTD is obtaining an appraisal on the
property as is USNC to ensure fair market value. This item will be an action
at the April 2, 2007 Planning and Development Committee meeting.
II.



Recommended Actions
Federal Center Property Acquisition (West Corridor) – Marla Lien introduced
this item. The District has been in negotiations for several years, with the
City of Lakewood acting as mediator, between the District and the General
Services Administration (GSA) to acquire 15 and a half acres of property to
construct the RTD Federal Center Station. This is a joint development for
the District and St. Anthony’s Hospital. Lakewood will annex the property

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on March 5, 2007
Page 2 of 5

and then the District will purchase the property from the City. The property
will be used for a bus transfer facility and a 1000 space park-n-ride. RTD
will also acquire an easement from GSA for the West Corridor light rail line
to run on the property.
Cal Marsella noted that the District is also receiving a temporary easement
to allow for a site to stage construction for the flyover bridge across 6th
Avenue into the Federal Center property for the light rail. In exchange for
this easement, RTD will make minor improvements in the area. These
improvements include grading for the streets and relocating the GSA’s
security fence so that all RTD activity will be outside the GSA security
perimeter.
There is a caveat in the agreement that a 1000 space parking structure be
build by the District if significant redevelopment were to occur. Director
Christopher asked if there were specifics for what “significant
redevelopment” means. Liz Rao, Assistant General Manager Planning and
Development, said 10-15% of the property could be redeveloped without
triggering the need to build the parking structure.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
negotiate and execute an Agreement for Purchase and Sale between the
City of Lakewood, Colorado, as Seller, and the Regional Transportation
District, as Purchaser to acquire approximately 15.48 acres of vacant land
located in the southwestern portion of the Denver Federal Center in
Jefferson County, Colorado for $5,361,229 plus reasonable costs of a title
policy and closing. It is further recommended that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager of his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents that may be necessary to acquire construction and operation
easements for a light rail line from the General Services Administration in
exchange for in kind contribution by RTD for development of the light rail
line including items such as security fencing, retaining walls, and
landscaping; to negotiate and execute documents to cooperatively design,
develop and construct improvements at this location and adjacent parcels to
be acquired by Catholic Health Initiatives (St. Anthony Hospitals) or its
designee, and to negotiate and execute planning and zoning documents with
the City and others which may include but are not limited to annexation
agreements and an Official Development Plans for the Federal Center
property other permanent and temporary construction easements, grading
and drainage easements, utility easements, and vehicular and pedestrian
access agreements and licenses.
Motion: Director McMullen made a
motion for full approval before
the Board at the March 27,
2007 Board Meeting.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on March 5, 2007
Page 3 of 5

Second: Director Busck seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.


Approval of FasTracks Noise Barrier Change Policy Design – Liz Rao and
Larry Warner spoke about this action item. This policy allows for affected
parties to opt out of EIS recommended noise barriers. RTD must provide
noise mitigation as required by the Federal Government. Larry Warner spoke
about lessons learned from the T-REX program and how staff took those
lessons into consideration to develop this policy. Any requested noise wall
changes are the responsibility of the requesting party. If there are any
savings from proposed changes, the savings can not be used to fund other
request enhancements. The FasTracks Noise Barrier Change Policy is
available for viewing in the Planning and Development Committee Meeting
Minute Notebook.
Director Ruchman asked about standards for materials and quality for
barriers contemplated in the policy. The policy was elaborate but did not
speak to what barriers would look like. Larry Warner stated for West
Corridor, that has not been fixed and alternatives are being developed.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee the RTD
Board of Directors approves the FasTracks Noise Barrier Change Policy to
provide a procedure for affected parties to request changes to a proposed
noise barrier design on a FasTracks project.
Motion: Director Elfenbein made a
motion for full approval before the
Board at the March 27, 2007
Board Meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.



Acceptance of Value Engineering Proposals - Changes to DEA/FRSC
Contract (West Corridor) – Cal Marsella introduced this action. He
highlighted the most controversial Value Engineering (VE) proposals. The
first was the changing of building to a five year flood event instead of a fifty
year flood event. The second, changing the design of Sheridan so that the
light rail tracks would be elevated over Sheridan instead of Sheridan being
elevated and the light rail tracks running underneath. The third, changing
from four to three car trains.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on March 5, 2007
Page 4 of 5

There was considerable discussion over items one and two. Director
Christopher expressed concern over the drainage issue and that this VE may
set a precedent for the other corridors. Robert Kochevar, FasTracks liaison,
gave the City and County of Denver’s perspective on the Sheridan issue.
Denver saw value in the EIS plan for Sheridan. Cal Marsella stated that if
the City of Denver and the City of Lakewood would come up with the $7.5
million dollars needed to elevate the road; this VE would be taken off the
table. Director Ruchman believed a commitment had been made to Denver
and Lakewood with the approved EIS and any negotiations should proceed
recognizing that commitment.
The change from four to three car trains would not affect the frequency of
service. Also, staff feels the expense to later go from three to four car train
platforms is relatively small.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to proceed with the
list of value engineering items and to execute all documents necessary to
award contract amendments to the Front Range Systems Consultant (FRSC)
and David Evans and Associates (DEA) in an amount not to exceed
$9,000,000 to design and cost the Board accepted Value Engineering Items
associated with the West Corridor. Funding for this amendment is available
in the FasTracks budget for the West Corridor.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion
for approval before the full Board
at the March 27, 2007 Board
Meeting.
Second: Director Elfenbein seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed with two
dissenting votes (Ruchman and
Christopher)
After this vote, there was more discussion over drainage issues and over the
Sheridan situation. Several Directors expressed hope that given more time,
the City of Denver and the City of Lakewood might be able to find funding
sources to help the situation.
Motion: Director Martinez made a motion
to amend the VE proposal to
remove the issue with Sheridan
from the VE list and to set a
deadline of April 10, 2007 for

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee Meeting on March 5, 2007
Page 5 of 5

positive movement from the
entities. If no positive movement
has occurred at this point, the
Board will move to accept the
Sheridan VE.
Second: Director Chacon seconded the
motion.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

III.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development
Committee will be April 2, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D.

V.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Ruchman adjourned the
meeting at 7:04 p.m.

