Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, July 14, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 8:10 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
8:06 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

8:10 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

8:15 PM
8:15 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District N

Present
Present

8:14 PM
8:10 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Committee Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

8:11 PM
8:04 PM
8:10 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:05 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

8:14 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

8:12 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

8:06 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:10 PM
8:05 PM

Directors Lasater and Solano left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Baudermann, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Heather Copp, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Anthony Forrester, David Genova,
John Gonzales, Cory Granrud, Nate Herman, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Tony McCaulay, Robin
McIntosh Jr., Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales,
Andy Mutz, Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters, Scott Reed,
Steve Reilly, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Karen Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Liz Telford, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch, Susan Wood,
C. Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Greg Barber, Chris Barker, Barbara Brodman, Sarah
Camacho, Sarah Clark, Karen Creamer, Jane Donovan, Joni Goheen,
Art Griffith, The Honorable Jim Gunning – Mayor of the City of Lone
Tree, Sherman Hamilton, Scott Hoffman, Eugene Howard, Negar
Karimi, Kelley Kneib, Anders Lindgren, Frank Marigold, Julie McCabe,
Lorna Moritz, Roger Partidge, Joe Reed, Dave Sachs, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Karen Stuart, Arleen Taniwaki, Gary Van
Dorn, Molly Vega, Megan Wagner, Roger Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• 2015-2020 Strategic Plan
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the 2015-2020 RTD Strategic Plan.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
reminded the Board that this item was reviewed at the June
30, 2015 Study Session. Staff has since made some
modifications; he asked Brian Welch, Senior Manager of
Planning Technical Services, to review the changes with the
Board.

Brian Welch reiterated that changes were made based on the
feedback staff heard at the Study Session. He said that the
first change was related to the Strategic Planning Process
Flow. Per Board direction to make sure this plan really
addressed RTD’s long-term vision, staff added a sentence that
reads: “Some of the initiatives involve actions that may not
come to fruition until beyond the five-year time frame, but
warrant action now”.
The next change relates to an initiative that staff flushed out
further to increase equity and accessibility. One of the
initiatives now reads: “Work with private and non-profit
partners to collaborate on new technologies such as car and
bicycle sharing, autonomous vehicles and other transportation
innovations”. He said staff heard pretty clearly from the Board
that this needs to be a forward looking document and
anticipate activities over the next five years that will position
the District to deal with emerging technologies so this was
added to address that need.
Additionally, the Board expressed a great deal of interest in
the integration of the RTD investment with the State of
Colorado. As a result, the initiative was changed from simply:
“Partner with other agencies to integrate transit services
throughout the State of Colorado” to read: “Establish a
leadership role with other agencies to integrate transit services
throughout the State of Colorado”. This signifies that RTD
would have a leadership role in that activity.
Finally, based on a number of comments from the Board
related to the interest in fostering enhanced communication
between Board and staff, the initiative was changed from:
“Foster a two-way communication culture with every level of
the organization” to read: “Foster a two-way communication
culture with every level of the organization, including
enhanced opportunities for Board/staff interaction.”
He said that if the Board approves the Strategic Plan, staff will
come back later in the year with performance metrics that
would be associated with the initiatives so progress could be
monitored by the Board. Staff believes the Board’s preference
would be to visit the Strategic Plan once a year while
performance measures would become part of the Board and
Senior Leadership Team Advance.

Committee Chair James feels that the process by which the
Board is looking at this document and having the opportunity
for changes is good. He thanked Brian Welch for outlining the
changes since the last iteration of the Strategic Plan.
Director Folska expressed her appreciation for all the effort
that has gone into preparing the Strategic Plan. To her it is a
memorialization of what RTD is already doing and what we
have decided to do for the next year. She stated that is has
always been her belief that doing a strategic plan is what the
Board was elected to do. She recognized that there are some
boards that have staff create the plans but that is not her
preference so she will not be supporting the approval of the
Strategic Plan this evening.
Director Lubow echoed Director Folska’s comments. She
appreciates the work that staff has put into revisions to
address specific Board concerns. She said she very much
appreciates being listened to and feeling like she was heard;
however, she still feels that a retreat driven strategic plan that
the Board does once a year should be done also for a five year
plan. She said that personally she would like to consider this
document suggestions for moving forward as opposed to
having it be associated with specific strategic goals. Director
Lubow noted that although she appreciated the work she
would be voting against the Strategic Plan.
Director Solano said that he also appreciated the work but he
thinks a Board driven plan is more in-line with what the
constituents want. He believes that the timeframe for the
Strategic Plan should be one where the Board can establish
this policy. He stated that he will vote no.
Director Walker stated that he will be supporting the Strategic
Plan. He expressed his confusion about the sentiment that
this is not Board driven. He noted that the Board gave input
and the Strategic Plan was changed as a result. He shared
that in his experience it is usually staff that creates the items
for the Board to vote on. Staff comes up with the concepts,
develops the plans, writes the reports, etc. and the Board
either approves them or asks for changes. He thinks this is a
Board driven Strategic Plan even though staff did the bulk of
the work. Director Walker thanked the staff for listening to
the Board’s concerns. He thinks they did a great job.

Director Bagley echoed the comments made by Director
Walker. He shared that he spent a great deal of time with
Brian Welch discussing the issues that he thought were most
important for the agency. He sees several of those issues
(customer service, safety and workforce) being right at the top
of the items the Strategic Plan addresses. He recognized that
Brian Welch and his team spent countless hours interviewing
and having conversations with 14 members of the Board. He
expressed his shock that one member did not participate.
Director Deadwyler thanked staff for all the hard work they
have put in on the Strategic Plan. She recognized that the
Directors and Senior Leadership Team have an advance once a
year to discuss a one year plan, not a five year plan. She
would like to see the Board have a full discussion on the
Strategic Plan. She said that she expressed what she thought
was most important but it did not appear in the plan until
recently; therefore, she will be voting no. Director Deadwyler
believes that the Board needs more involvement in developing
the Strategic Plan. She thinks that perhaps having something
similar to the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force might be
valuable in further developing this plan.
Committee Chair James shared that he agrees with Director
Bagley and Director Walker. This Strategic Plan is one that
has had plenty of Board input. He believes it is consistent
with RTD’s mission as articulated by the Board and does a
good job describing how to achieve the desired outcomes.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 5]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Francone, Hoy, James, Menten, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Deadwyler, Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Solano
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

• Contract Amendment; 2nd Optional Year of 2013-2015 Street
Improvements & Shelter Installations Contract; # 33DM005
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
all documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the
second optional year of a three-year contract for the annual Street
Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc.

for $390,318.35. Funding for this contract amendment is provided by the
annual 2015 – 2016 Engineering Expense Budgets.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Senior Manager of Engineering, explained
that currently RTD uses Manion Construction to perform dayto-day repair work for things like bus pads, curbs, shelters,
etc. as well as work on the West Corridor. He said that this is
a really straightforward contract. Ordinarily staff would come
back in September but we have been using them quite a bit on
the West Corridor.
Cory Granrud, Project Manager, noted that Manion did 34
projects from 2013 to 2014 while this year they are already
going on 52. He said that Manion is a small business
contractor and has been very good to work with. They do a
great job so staff wishes to extend the contract.
Director Menten said that she was in support of the contract.
She asked if staff could send her the email contact for the
different governing bodies that would be responsible for the
non-RTD bus benches, shelters, etc. She has wanted to reach
out to them for several years as she sees broken bus benches,
graffiti, etc. She knows this is not RTD’s responsibility so she
would like to reach out to the responsible parties. Henry
Stopplecamp recognized that it might take some time to find
the information for every county in Director Menten’s district
but staff would work on that.
Director Francone asked how the base contract value was
determined. Henry Stopplecamp explained that staff looked at
the ongoing projects and then did an estimate. He said that it
was a lot of guess work. The last two years the cost ended
up being over the initial base contract value and staff had to
come back to the Board to request approval of amendments
for additional funding.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Committee Vice-Chair
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• RTD TOD Assessment Status Report to the Board of Directors
Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development and Planning
Coordination, reminded the Board that this is the second briefing as part of
the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Assessment. The team is
comprised of GM Arrington of GB Place Making, Lorna Morita of TRA, and
Arleen Taniwaki of ArLand. They reviewed a Power Point presentation that
was included in the July 14, 2015 Planning and Development Committee
Agenda Packet. The presentation focused on the Peer Reviews, 360 TOD
Interviews and Internal Assessments that the team conducted.
GB Arrington noted that there are six big themes to focus on which are:
 RTD compared well to peers
 Pilots raised RTD’s competency
 Decision-making is a challenge
 TOD group is not empowered
 Build processes, become more systematic and be more proactive
 Think more about TOD during operations
The Peer Agency TOD Review key findings were:
 RTD’s TOD program has evolved and grown since the 2010 TOD
Strategic Plan
 RTD compared well with national best practices
 RTD should selectively borrow from its peers – help take the program
to the next level
The External Interviews revealed important observations related to RTD TOD
Decision-making as follows:
 RTD departmental interests compete
 Decision-makings often contradict each other
 TOD projects impact almost every department without sufficient
coordination
 RTD TOD Projects lack sufficient priority
 TOD group is not enabled or empowered

The External Interviews also indicated that the TOD staff had learned from
the TOD pilot programs, which was their purpose but interested parties felt
RTD learned by doing at their expense. Those interviewed also felt that the
timelines and schedules were impacted by RTD delays as decisions took too
long and there was inconsistent RTD guidance.
The Internal Assessment key themes were:
 Recognized the value of the TOC Division
 Build processes, become more systematic and be more proactive
 Is TOD a core function of RTD
 TOD is an evolving process at RTD
 RTD departmental interests compete
 Was money left on the table with TOD and DUS
 Residual baggage with TOD
 TOD during construction versus during operations
 Does TOD have the authority to negotiate
GB Arrington stated that his team would be back in the fall. At that time
they would prepare specific recommendations for policies, processes,
staffing and follow-up work.
Committee Chair James thanked the team for their candor and insights.
Director Folska thanked them for all their work. She thinks it is incredibly
useful, meaningful and informative.
Director Deadwyler shared that one of the things most relevant in her
District is that we evaluate everything except the customer needs. She said
that she is not disappointed in the work done so far but is concerned that a
big piece missing is discussions with the users. She hopes that they can
capture some of that feedback when they come back in the fall.
Director Walker wondered how much of the TOD program struggles were
due to unclear legislation at the state or local level. He asked if there was
something beyond our control that was contributing to some of the
difficulties. Bill Sirois noted that the Board really received an unfiltered
version of the comments. He thinks that the process has been a learning
experience for staff. He pointed out that the report did acknowledge that
the TOD staff has evolved form 2010 when our TOD Pilots began. Bill Sirois
stated that it is a challenge, especially as staff interfaces with developers
that are not used to dealing with a public agency.
Director Walker commented that there are things that RTD cannot control.
Transit Oriented Development is really a choice; there are some people and

communities that want it and some that do not. Director Walker stated that
when most people voted for FasTracks in 2004 they said that transportation
was something they wanted. He believes this is a good step toward helping
us find a path towards Transit Oriented Development.
GB Arrington noted that if his team were making this presentation to other
peer agencies they would be saying many of the same things; these are
normal challenges when trying to balance the needs of users, developers,
cities, etc. He said if there are no internal fights then it means nothing is
happening. He recognized that his team is not surprised there are tensions
at RTD but the goal is to find ways to make the process more predictable to
work through.
Interim General Manager Genova noted that the change in legislation for
parking management has already helped RTD. Several examples are the
unsolicited proposal received and the City of Aurora’s plans for the Iliff
Parking Garage.
Director Lubow said she was very happy with having a TOD Analysis
because it is such a large and all-encompassing subject that it is easy to get
lost. She believes that anything RTD can do to clarify our mission and goals
is a big plus. She is very excited for their final presentation.
Director Bagley thinks it is important for the Board to remember where we
came from. Back in 2009 RTD was simply the ‘T’ in Transit Oriented
Development. He believes the agency has come a long way in seven years.
He hears from the development community that they would like RTD’s TOD
group to act as a facilitator and ombudsman. Director Bagley thinks that
RTD is constrained by State Legislation in regards to our involvement in
TOD. He wonders if perhaps the TOD Department needs to stand on its
own and have a bigger voice than just being under the Planning Department.
Director Menten thinks that the communities along the West Corridor did not
envision high density development when they approved the FasTracks plan.
The West Line goes right through well-established neighborhoods. She said
that many of those larger homesteads have been in families for generations;
they do not want to move and they do not want a seven story housing
community next to them. Director Menten stated that she would want
notifications of any zoning changes in her area and what that would mean
for the community.
Director Francone asked the TOD Assessment team to keep in mind Director
Walker’s earlier comment as they come back to the Board in the fall that
“this is how we live and this is how we want to live”. She also asked them
to keep in mind Director Menten’s sentiments that not all communities want

Transit Oriented Development. Her community members chose to live in
her area because there are single family homes on larger lots. She believes
her constituency would be sensitive to issues around density in their
community. Director Francone wondered if the focus of the TOD
Assessment was only related to FasTracks projects or if it would include bus
transit centers as well. Bill Sirois explained that RTD would be deferring to
local jurisdictions to create the vision for their community. If the local
jurisdiction decides that they want to be a large lot, single family home
community then RTD will not do anything to conflict with that vision. He
said that there are some beginning stages of TOD happening around bus
service and in the future he expects this to expand.
Bill Sirois pointed out that Transit Oriented Development is really context
sensitive; transit is an amenity that helps development but just because
there is a transit center does not mean development will automatically
happen. Other factors like location, local jurisdictions commitment, etc.
need to be there to make development happen.
Lorna Moritz commented that when they review TOD programs that are
somewhat more mature, the way those program prioritize their stations is to
look to where they have willing partners such as local jurisdictions,
neighborhood associations, developers, etc. She said no one will shove a
TOD down a community’s throat that does not want it there because it is
too hard to do even when people are interested.
Committee Chair James noted that the fundamental mission of RTD is
mobility but RTD also exists to contribute to the livability of the Metro area.
He believes that livability is contributed to by TOD. The challenge is the
coordination of these two goals. Committee Chair James thinks it is great
that RTD is in the process of conducting a TOD assessment. He looks
forward to finishing the study and implementing some of the
recommendations.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley shared that he recently had the opportunity to give Anthony Graves
from the Mayor Hancock’s office a tour of District H. Director Bagley said that he
has known Anthony Graves since his time with Visit Denver. He thought they had
a very valuable conversation about RTD. He suggested that it might be worthwhile
for those Directors that have not yet met with him to do so.
Committee Chair James noted that he has known Anthony Graves for a similar
period of time as Director Bagley. He said that Anthony Graves has reached out to
all Board members; he asked those Directors that had not yet taken the opportunity
to meet with Anthony Graves to please do so.

Director Menten shared that she had her meeting with Anthony Graves several
weeks ago. They met at the Sheridan Station with their bikes to take the West
Line to the Jeffco Government Center and had some difficulties getting on the train.
They missed the first train and then Anthony Graves got on the next train and it
ended up leaving Director Menten behind. He said if anyone said the W-Line does
not run on time they were wrong.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 4, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 9:18 p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee Meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

