1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors

Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – Christopher Martinez, District B
Second Vice Chair – Noel Busck, District K
Secretary – William G. McMullen, District E
Treasurer – John Tayer, District O
Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Juanita Chacon, District C
Bill Christopher, District J
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill Elfenbein, District A

Daryl Kinton, District H
Wally Pulliam, District L
O’Neill P. Quinlan, District G
Dave Ruchman, District M
Barbara Yamrick, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 at 5:30PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RTD COLOR GUARD PRESENTATION

IV.

RETIREE AWARDS
Helen S. Allen, Bus Operator - 23 Years of Service
Karel Baier, Mechanic - 18 Years of Service
Joseph J. Colon, Bus Operator - 23 Years of Service
Raymond Fernandez, Equipment Maintenance Supervisor - 23 Years of Service
Norman D. Staples, Operations Division Maintenance Manager - 29 Years of Service
Rudy Veve, Bus Operator - 29 Years of Service
Terry A. Vicek, Transportation Manager - 36 Years of Service

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting you
wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIRMAN REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
THANK YOU.

V.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Ruchman
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Pulliam
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Chacon
Contracted Operational Services Committee - Chaired by Director Yamrick
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Kinton
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
Technology Committee - Chaired by Director Quinlan
Audit-Sub Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Quinlan
E-470 – Director Busck
ACED – Director Busck
DRCOG-Director Elfenbein
Northwest Parkway-Director Pulliam or Director Kemp
Pension Committee-Director Pulliam
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Christopher
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF DECEMBER 18, 2007

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A.

Selection of Location for Posting of Public Notice
The Board of Directors officially designates the locked glass enclosure located on the
wall at the entryway to the RTD Administration office located at 1600 Blake St as the
location for posting of public notices including Board and Committee meetings for
2008.

B.

Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR VANGO
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year
2008 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $400,000.

C.

Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Englewood/art shuttle
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the
City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2008 and is for an amount not
to exceed $273,224.

D.

Park Meadows – Cost Sharing Agreement
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with Rouse-Park Meadows to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the Park Meadows Shuttle. This agreement is
for calendar year 2008 and is for an amount not to exceed $112,302.

E.

Cost Sharing Agreements – FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the
Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA
Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and
Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2008 and for amounts not
to exceed $301,000 for Boulder County, $123,860 for Adams County and $91,789
for Jefferson County.

F.

Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year
2008 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $515,000.

G.

Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and
adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2008 and
is for an amount not to exceed $1,243,640.

H.

May 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed May 4, 2008 Service Changes (Attachment A)
on to public review and comment.

I.

2008 Fiscal Policy Statement Revision
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors update and modify the Fiscal Policy Statements, Debt Policies – Item 5,
regarding the District’s credit ratings.

J.

Recommended Modifications to the RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached District Investment Policy, marked to show
modifications.

K.

West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Lakewood
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Lakewood and the
Regional Transportation District, the purpose of which is to set forth the rights,
duties and obligations of Lakewood to fund a portion of the project costs and the
obligations of RTD to design, construct, own, operate and maintain a light rail
transit project within the boundaries of the City of Lakewood. This IGA does not
commit any present funding by either Party. Implementation of this IGA implies
future financial commitments by both Parties subject to future RTD Board of
Directors and Lakewood City Council approvals, and is subject to each respective
agency’s legally required budgeting, authorization and appropriation process.
Nothing in the IGA shall be construed as a multiple fiscal year obligation by either
Party.

L.

West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City and County of
Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver
(CCoD) and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set
forth the rights, duties and obligations of CCoD to fund a portion of the project
costs and the obligations of RTD to design, construct, own, operate and maintain
a light rail transit project within the boundaries of the City and County of Denver.
This IGA does not commit any present funding by either Party. Implementation of
this IGA implies future financial commitments by both Parties subject to future
RTD Board of Directors and Denver City Council approvals, and is subject to each
respective agency’s legally required budgeting, authorization and appropriation
process. Nothing in the IGA shall be construed as a multiple fiscal year obligation
by either Party.

M.

West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Lakewood –
Bikepath Bridges at Wadsworth and Kipling
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an amended and
restated Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Lakewood (COL)
and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of which is to set forth the
rights, duties and obligations of Lakewood totally funding the design and
construction of two bikepath bridges, one of which will span Wadsworth Avenue
and one of which will span Kipling Street. The city also agrees to reimburse RTD
for the full cost of design management, construction management, insurance as
well as any property acquisition and utility relocation necessitated by the design
and construction of the aforementioned bikepath bridges.

N.

Request for Approval of RTD 2007 Annual Report to DRCOG on FasTracks
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt and approve submittal of the RTD 2007 Annual Report
on FasTracks to DRCOG. This report summarizes the changes to the FasTracks
Plan that have been approved by the Board in 2007. Adoption of the 2007
Annual Report will constitute approval of revised changes to the Financial Plan in
regard to supplementary SB 97-01 and TIP funds for the West Corridor and total
completion costs for Denver Union Station. These changes are included and
referenced in the Annual Report.

O.

X.

Recommendation for Selection of Outside Legal Counsel – PPP Concession Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract in the amount not to
exceed of $3 million for a three year term from February 2008-January 2011 with two
one year options to extend to the firms of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and
Kaplan Kirsch & Rockwell LLP (Freshfields) as the most qualified firm in outside legal
counsel to RTD to assist in all steps necessary to draft a concession agreement to
procure a concessionaire and for construction of the Gold and East Corridor commuter
rail lines and commuter rail maintenance facility through a Public Private Partnership
(PPP). Funds in the amount of $1 million are included in the 2008 FasTracks Budget.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
1.) C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(a) Contract Negotiations for Federal Center TOD
2.) C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Contract Negotiations between Jefferson County and
RTD for the West Corridor IGA

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
P.

Recommendation for Contract Negotiations between Jefferson County and RTD for the
West Corridor IGA (from Executive Session)

Q.

Resolution No.__, Series of 2008 Regarding Acquisition of Real property for the West
Corridor Subsequent to Certification

XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS

XIV.

ADJOURN

