Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 22, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
January 22, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:40 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at the time of roll call. Directors Brohl and
Ruchman arrived after roll call.

III.

RTD COLOR GUARD PRESENTATION
The RTD Color Guard kicked off the first Board meeting of the year by presenting the
colors after which Chair Kemp lead the Board in saying the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag.

IV.

RETIREE AWARDS
Seven employees retired the last of December/early January. Raymond Fernandez, Equipment
maintenance Supervisor with 23 years, expressed what a pleasure it was to work for RTD and
that this was a good organization. Norman Staples, Operations Division Maintenance Manager
with 29 years spoke of what a positive experience this has been for him and how much he
appreciated the employees, his mentors and superiors. He stated that RTD is a good place to
work. Chair Kemp shared how Norm had given him an opportunity many years ago when RTD
was in a downturn and how much he appreciated this opportunity.
Terry Vicek, Transportation Manager with 36 years of experience, shared that he was the last
person hired by the Denver Tramway Corporation before becoming RTD. He thanked RTD for
the privilege to work here and expressed his appreciation to all. Director Daly shared that
Terry was his instructor in 1975 when they had to learn on old buses with no speedometers
and had to follow spiderweb routes. Terry always exhibited a true concern for the morale of
his employees.

V.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Shane Wright, Colorado Therapeutic Recreation Society, expressed concerns over the
change to the CC route which affects getting the disabled workers to Steamers Coffee
House. He stated the access-n-ride services are what allow these disabled workers to go
on about their lives and achieve some independence. He petitioned RTD to examine any
and all options to assist in maintaining a quality of life for the disabled.
Rich McNeal, Denver, spoke about the need to merge stop 38 with 7 so drivers will not
pass the riders by who are standing there sometimes waving two canes. It is as though
they are being given a message that they are not worth picking up and drivers purposely go
out of their way to not pick them up. He wanted to also congratulate RTD on getting the
light rail going and recognized they had lots of support. He is glad to see it off the ground.

Phuonglan Nguyen, FRESC, introduced who she was but turned her minutes over to Robin
Kniech.
Robin Kniech, FRESC, shared the focus of the organization on affordable housing, jobs and
overall concern of inclusiveness as it relates to low income housing. Ms. Kniech requested
RTD make the RFP process more open to allow public stakeholders to have input into the
drafts of the details for the RFP using a more rigorous process for inclusion.
Robert Baxter, Pine Junction, thanked Director Daly for meeting with them and expressing his
understanding of the importance of the parking facility. He then requested RTD to partner with
the US 285 coalition to build a more permanent park-n-Ride structure. At a minimal, he would
like to see better signage at the existing park-n-Ride in Pine Junction.
Galen Foster, property owner at 13th and Wadsworth, expressed continuing concern,
disappointment, mistrust and overall disgust for what he perceives RTD is doing to use
eminent domain to destroy people’s lives. He vowed to join other groups such as Colorado
Property Rights Coalition to get the word out that RTD destroys lives.
Steve Fesch, Denver, who owns the property at 2750 W. 14th Street across from the Decatur
Station talked about the misuse of eminent domain and how the system professing liberty and
justice for all has let him down and he is losing hope. He stated that General Manager Cal
Marsella had stated RTD will follow process but he is not being treated properly. He stated
that a number of things told to him were untrue and he shared how he had hired attorney Mark
May who had represented him for 30 days but them left him to work for RTD. He feels this is
a bad abuse of power and he is now looking to the Supreme Court to address the misuse of
eminent domain. He would still like to have the City of Denver, Cal Marsella, and the Board
Directors come to the table to give him a fair shake.
Leslie Fishburn, Kacey Fine Furniture, expressed concerns over her building located in
Lakewood and what they have been told. She stated they have requested timelines, schedules
and details which have not been forthcoming. She expressed concern that as a property
owner they have not been given enough information to determine what they can do with their
property. As it stands, it has rendered their property disabled and useless.
Jack Barton, Founder of Kacey Fine Furniture, expressed a similar concern and petitioned for
some solution to the problem where they could retain some equity in their building.
Brenda Perkovich Crespin who owns a business at 12th and Benton in Lakewood, expressed
concern that she could no longer have access across the tracks to the property and since this
is the only entrance to her business, this effectively make her business landlocked. She did
indicate she had been given a temporary reprieve but nevertheless RTD needs to treat the
public with some respect similar to what the retirees indicated they had received at RTD. She
just wanted RTD to be fair and equitable. At this point she supports an amendment to not pay
RTD taxes because they are not being treated fairly.
Tom Wambolt, president of Colorado Property Rights Coalition, expressed a concern with how
eminent domain is being used to help the developers. He stated only the developers will be
able to profit from how eminent domain is being used and asked why not let the developers
negotiate directly with the homeowners. He also stated that he has seen how Olde Town
Arvada is losing its historical perspective to the new light rail station and TOD.
Daniel Gallegos is a decorated Marine who served in Vietnam was wounded in combat and lost
his left leg. He spoke to alert the people to the history of RTD in taking people’s property and
not giving them fair value for it. He feels that RTD disrespected his parents and is
disrespecting these property owners. He then shared how upset he was to hear that someone

at RTD had referred to them as freaks in an article in the Lakewood Sentinel and he expected a
written apology from RTD. He is not a freak. He is a Veteran who served this country and
lost his leg serving this country. RTD owes them an apology.
Renee Nelson, a Director on the Colorado Property Rights Coalition Board, expressed
indignation that someone at RTD would refer to these property owners as freaks. She stated
not only did she have a concern over violation of state stature 32-9-107, but also over 39-9119. The bureaucratic doubletalk must stop! RTD is in the transit business, not development.
She also supports the legislation being proposed and these property owners deserve an
apology.
Duncan Phillips, Fort Collins, indicated he has been called a lot of names but never a freak
before. RTD owes Mr. Gallegos an apology. What RTD is doing amounts to old fashion
communism.
Ray Stutz, retiree from the fire department, came to speak on behalf of his friend Steve Fesch.
He met Steve 4 years ago and right now RTD is creating a lot of stress for Steve. RTD has
the power to do what is right. Compromise and let Steve keep some of his property.
Kellye Monaghan, Denver, is a frequent user of the RTD services and travels from one end of
town to the other assisting people. She relayed an experience she had where she tried to call
TIC for route/scheduling information and was on hold from 7:20 -7:50 where she discovered
the TIC was on holiday but the bus service was not. What’s up with that? She thinks it was
her sixth sense that brought her to the meeting but now she will tell the story about what RTD
is doing to these poor property owners.
Bill Elfenbein, Denver Colorado, read a letter on behalf of Patricia Cronenberger, former
chairperson of Transit Alliance and former mayor of Littleton, commending RTD Board for
recognizing Lauren Martens as a “Champion of Transit.” A copy of this letter is located with
the minutes in the Board meeting notebook.
Bobby Baumgartner, retired US Marine Corp, expressed his feelings that eminent domain has
given RTD too much power to take property and ruin lives. He came to speak on behalf of his
friend Steve Fesch and is wondering what did he fight for? He requested RTD to negotiate
fairly and honestly with Steve and stop hiding behind lawyers and eminent domain.
Bryan Wareing, Golden, made an observation that a couple of weeks ago, the City of
Lakewood negotiated an IGA with RTD. He does not understand how RTD can negotiate an
IGA since they are not a municipality. Nevertheless, RTD has shown no respect for the rights
of the property owners. It is beyond his comprehension why RTD did not see years ago when
China started buying up the cooper and steel that there would be a problem with the cost of
materials. There is no excuse for ignorance and RTD is a fraudulent organization.
Director Brohl expressed some confusion over a letter which had been sent to her by staff
explaining the eminent domain and commercial use of property. She asked the question “how
can the 8 story commercial/residential structure being discussed be considered incidental to
transit?” Cal Marsella explained the primary use of the land is to build a 4 story, 1000 parking
structure. RTD would release a RFP asking developers for a proposal for the remaining 8
stories that have been approved by the City of Lakewood who wants to encourage TOD. It is
possible that RTD might get a bid from a developer who will build the 1000 space parking
structure and utilize the 8 stories above for a price savings to RTD.
Director McMullen asked further clarification on the claim by Ms. Crespin that RTD has
rendered her landlocked. Cal responded yes but they had purchased the land with recoverable
access. He would discuss this further in Executive Session.

Cal Marsella spoke to the general audience and stated while he could not negate what might
have been said, he wanted them to know that RTD is here to work in the public interest and he
apologized for anything that might have been said that was not respectful to them. RTD is
going to be fair and is obligated to follow the process established under the Relocation-your
rights and benefits as a displaced person under the Federal Relocation Assistance Program and
Acquisition-Acquiring real property for Federal and Federal-aid programs and projects. He has
met with a number of people including the Colorado Property Rights Coalition and has surveyed
some of the sites involved. He is willing to meet with anyone of them to view their property
and to discuss.
VI. COMMITTEE REPORTS
Director Pulliam indicated that the legislative meeting will be 1/23/08 at 4:30 p.m.
VII. APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF December 18, 2007
MOTION:
Director McMullen moved for the adoption of the December
18, 2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and
Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Meeting with Brighton Chamber of Commerce
Cal Marsella and Chair Kemp had a positive meeting with the Brighton Chamber of
Commerce on 1/17/08. Cal Marsella presented the updated status on FasTracks.
2. Meeting with Northglenn City Council on North Metro Line
Cal Marsella, Chair Kemp and Director Busck met with the Northglenn City Council on
1/17/08. One of the items discussed was the proposed station at 112th. Previously
there had been a task force assigned to look at this and they will resurrect the task
force with the goal to go back to the City Council to obtain their support for the station.
It is RTD’s belief that the public will be best served with a station at this location.
3. Presentation on Transit Oriented Development to the International Council of Shopping
Centers
In reflecting on a number of co-developments that have occurred on RTD sites such as the
Broomfield Event Center, McCaslin, Broadway Marketplace, and others, Cal Marsella sees
this as a win-win opportunity for all. RTD is currently considering a parking lease
arrangement with Avaya and other types of development with Centrepoint in Aurora.
4. Martin Luther King Social Responsibility Luncheon
Cal Marsella was proud of the representation from RTD at this luncheon.
5. Update on Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
RTD is continuing to explore its options and looking at other sites for the commuter rail
maintenance facility.
6. Other Issues

Cal Marsella will be attending the CEO Transit Seminar in Orlando next week and will not
be here. He will return in time for the Board retreat on 2/2/08.
RTD had a chance today 1/22/08, to demonstrate the COBUS which is a candidate for
replacement of the mall shuttle units. Unlike the mall shuttle, the COBUS is a production
vehicle from Europe and much simpler to maintain.
IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Christopher moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-O.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Selection of Location for Posting of Public Notice
The Board of Directors officially designates the locked glass enclosure located on the
wall at the entry way to the RTD Administration office located at 1600 Blake St as the
location for posting of public notices including Board and Committee meetings for
2008.

B.

Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR VANGO
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year
2008 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $400,000.

C.

Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Englewood/art shuttle
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the
City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2008 and is for an amount not
to exceed $273,224.

D.

Park Meadows – Cost Sharing Agreement
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with Rouse-Park Meadows to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the Park Meadows Shuttle. This agreement is
for calendar year 2008 and is for an amount not to exceed $112,302.

E.

Cost Sharing Agreements – FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the
Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA

Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and
Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2008 and for amounts not
to exceed $301,000 for Boulder County, $123,860 for Adams County and $91,789
for Jefferson County.
F.

Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year
2008 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $515,000.

G.

Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and
adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2008 and
is for an amount not to exceed $1,243,640.

H.

May 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed May 4, 2008 Service Changes on to public
review and comment.

I.

2008 Fiscal Policy Statement Revision
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors update and modify the Fiscal Policy Statements, Debt Policies – Item 5,
regarding the District’s credit ratings.

J.

Recommended Modifications to the RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the District Investment Policy, marked to show modifications.

K.

West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of La kewood
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Lakewood and the
Regional Transportation District, the purpose of which is to set forth the rights,
duties and obligations of Lakewood to fund a portion of the project costs and the
obligations of RTD to design, construct, own, operate and maintain a light rail
transit project within the boundaries of the City of Lakewood. This IGA does not
commit any present funding by either Party. Implementation of this IGA implies
future financial commitments by both Parties subject to future RTD Board of
Directors and Lakewood City Council approvals, and is subject to each respective
agency’s legally required budgeting, authorization and appropriation process.
Nothing in the IGA shall be construed as a multiple fiscal year obligation by either
Party.

L.

West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City and County of
Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver

(CCoD) and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set
forth the rights, duties and obligations of CCoD to fund a portion of the project
costs and the obligations of RTD to design, construct, own, operate and maintain
a light rail transit project within the boundaries of the City and County of Denver.
This IGA does not commit any present funding by either Party. Implementation of
this IGA implies future financial commitments by both Parties subject to future
RTD Board of Directors and Denver City Council approvals, and is subject to each
respective agency’s legally required budgeting, authorization and appropriation
process. Nothing in the IGA shall be construed as a multiple fiscal year obligation
by either Party.
M.

West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of Lakewood –
Bikepath Bridges at Wadsworth and Kipling
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an amended and
restated Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City of Lakewood (COL)
and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of which is to set forth the
rights, duties and obligations of Lakewood totally funding the design and
construction of two bikepath bridges, one of which will span Wadsworth Avenue
and one of which will span Kipling Street. The city also agrees to reimburse RTD
for the full cost of design management, construction management, insurance as
well as any property acquisition and utility relocation necessitated by the de sign
and construction of the aforementioned bikepath bridges.

N.

Request for Approval of RTD 2007 Annual Report to DRCOG on FasTracks
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopts and approves submittal of the RTD 2007 Annual Report on FasTracks
to DRCOG. This report summarizes the changes to the FasTracks Plan that have been
approved by the Board in 2007. Adoption of the 2007 Annual Report will constitute
approval of revised changes to the Financial Plan in regard to supplementary SB 97-01
and TIP funds for the West Corridor and total completion costs for Denver Union
Station. These changes are included and referenced in the Annual Report.

O.

Recommendation for Selection of Outside Legal Counsel – PPP Concession Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract in the amount not to
exceed of $3 million for a three year term from February 2008-January 2011 with two
one year options to extend to the firms of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and
Kaplan Kirsch & Rockwell LLP (Freshfields) as the most qualified firm in outside legal
counsel to RTD to assist in all steps necessary to draft a concession agreement to
procure a concessionaire and for construction of the Gold and East Corridor commuter
rail lines and commuter rail maintenance facility through a Public Private Partnership
(PPP). Funds in the amount of $1 million are included in the 2008 FasTracks Budget.

X. EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose of C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (a) Contract Negotiations for Federal Center
TOD and C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e) Contract Negotiations
between Jefferson County and RTD for West Corridor
IGA
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Chair Kemp declared the vote PASSED.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 7:15 p.m.
XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:20 p.m.
P. Recommendation for Contract Negotiations between Jefferson County and RTD for the
West Corridor IGA (from Executive Session preceding this vote 1/22/08)
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
recommendation for contract negotiations between
Jefferson County and RTD for the West Corridor IGA.
Directors Brohl and Ruchman seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Busck, Brohl, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman and Tayer), and 1 against (Yamrick).
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

Q.

Resolution No.__ Series of 2008 regarding Acquisition of Real Property for the West
Corridor Subsequent to Certification
MOTION:

Director Ruchman made the motion for approval of the
resolution regarding acquisition of real property for the
West Corridor subsequent to certification.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION

Director Martinez expressed a concern that the Board
needs to hold RTD to a higher standard to avoid giving
the appearance of impropriety as in the case of hiring
attorney May after he had been hired by Steve Fesch as
alleged. Marla Lien explained that there was not a
conflict of interest per the professional standards as long
as May does not work on issues related to Steve Fesch.
An in-depth discussion occurred with several other Board
members expressing some sensitivity to how the eminent
domain is implemented and the erroneous perception RTD
may be giving to the public. All were concerned about
doing the right thing and giving the property owner fair
value. Director Martinez pointed out that one of the
purposes of the eminent domain is to protect the rights of
property owners. Cal Marsella indicated that the process
defined under the Uniform Act ensures the property
owners of fair process.
Director Quinlan was adamant and stated he could not
reconcile using eminent domain to purchase property at
current market value that had the potential to be sold
back to developers for a significant profit. He felt RTD

should find some way to make the owners of the
property benefit from these transactions.
Director Chacon expressed she felt this was an issue
where the property owners did not feel respected. She
asked if there is a way to carry out eminent domain while
treating the owners in a sensitive, humane way.
Several directors (Busck, Christopher, Ruchman,
Elfenbein) felt that eminent domain is a recognized law
dating back many centuries and has inherent in it the
ability to negotiate, liberate, and as a last option, to seize
property but overall the focus must be on the greater
good. Director Ruchman, whose district is represented
by these issues, provided a compelling reason why RTD
must go forth with the purchase of this property along
13th street versus other routes that are more populated
and would have a greater impact. Overall this will
contribute greatly to the quality of life for the residents of
Lakewood. We must follow the law but this is for the
greater good.
Director Pulliam expressed strong concerns about this
issue and in a show of concern, withdrew his second
to the motion to approve this resolution.
Director Busck provided a new second to the motion.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Busck, Brohl, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman,
and Tayer) 2 against (Quinlan and Yamrick)
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp announced the Board retreat would be February 2, 2008 and we would use
The Osprey Group as the facilitators who had been recommended by Director Tayer. This
will be a two step process with the first meeting followed within thirty days with the
second retreat to agree upon goals and expectations.
Chair Kemp petitioned the Board members to be more sensitive to the public participation
process and to not be disrespectful to the speakers by moving around and having sidebar
conversations. Director Busck expanded this request to include being respectful when other
members of the Board are speaking also.

XIV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 9:10 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, February 19, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Ron Dodsworth
Phil Eberl
David Genova
Jennifer Heisler
Lloyd Mack
Caitlin Magee
Cal Marsella

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District D
District C
District J
District N
District A
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

Brian Matthews
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Bill Porter
Liz Rao
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster

OTHERS PRESENT:
John Hulse (Spectrum)
Ed Colby (URS)
Boyd Gordon (URS)
John Mitchel
Debra Mitchel
Jacqueline Knights (Bear Stearns)
Tim Swope (Boulder County)
Karen Samuelsen (NFB)
Eric Biga (Veolia)
Bruce Behncke (Veolia)
Linda Wambolt (Colorado Property Rights Coalition)
Tom Wambolt (Colorado Property Rights Coalition)
Peter Lorenzen
John Maslanik
Phuonglan Nguyen (FRESC)
Steve Roesher Siemens
William James
Malcolm Macintyre (Bobcoch & Brown)
Eliot Jamison (Bobcoch & Brown)
Ron Chance (WGI)
Roger Sherman (CRL)

John Shonsey
Jenny Barket
Stan Szabelak
Liz Telford
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington
Shirley Bennett
Scott Roberts

