1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, March 5, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:08 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:31 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:23 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:33 PM
5:27 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Present

5:31 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:32 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:20 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:28 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:19 PM

Staff Present:

Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, John Dawson, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter,
Austin Jenkins, Jeff Kay, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod,
Barbara McManus, Ana Mostaccero, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Ashland
Vaughn, Gary Vidlock, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Zach Alexander, Lauren Balsley, M. Combs, ZJ Czupor, Aaron
Epstein, Charles Flax, Jake Gilmore, Stan Gronek, Mowa Haile,
Sherman Hamilton, Walter Jones, Barry LaSalle, David Lewis, Qing
Liu, Brian Middleton, Bill Mosher, Dan Pearsall, Mark Pilkington, Laura
Rinker, Julio Rivera, Adriane Sanford, Roger Sherman, Robert Smith,
Joshua Solis, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson, Christina
Zazueta

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Denver Union Station Update
Bill Mosher with the Denver Union Station Project Authority addressed the
questions that had been presented by different Directors at the prior
meeting. The pedestrian bridge is 260 ft long from 18th Street to Wewatta.
The cost of the bridge is $5.2 million including the elevators; the elevator
itself is worth $1.2 million.
Director Bagley had requested a tour and Bill stated he would work with the
Board Office to coordinate. Director Deadwyler had asked about affordable
housing and he is still waiting for an answer as the staff person that had the
information is out of town.
He stated that as of February 28, they have spent $387 million and are 81%
completed. On the light rail the final acceptance was obtained on December
22, 2011 and the LRT Plaza opened on May 18, 2012. On the regional Bus
facilities, the critical path for the entire project goes through the bus box
structure. On Phases I & II West of Wewatta, they have completed the
Chestnut Pavilion elevator and escalator installation as well as the fire
damper installation in Plenum. The Chestnut pavilion exterior is nearing
completion. The storefront framing and glazing; the concourse metal panel
columns wraps; lighting fixtures installation as well as the smoke/exhaust

evacuation fan installation are all underway. In Phase III East of Wewatta
(behind DUS), they have completed several components including the train
bridge caissons and caps; the precast beams and planks installation;
backfilling the bus box wall and waterproofing among others. The Wewatta
and DUS pavilions elevator and escalator installations are underway. Finish
work continues within the public restrooms as well as the sawtooth
concrete Apron bus slips.
On the commuter rail, they have completed the steel fabrication for the CRT
canopy and the CRT systems duct bank in the throat. They are nearing
completion for the OCS foundation pier drilling and the CRT train hall canopy
structural steel erection among other aspects. Platform No. 2 construction
continues. The EVA lane structure and the chiller enclosure near platform 5
are underway.
Streets and Plazas completed include the LRT Plaza, 17th Street Gardens
Plaza and 16th Street (Chestnut to Wewatta). 16th Street (Wewatta to
Wynkoop) is expected to be completed in April. Wewatta Street is expected
to be completed during the summer and the Wynkoop Plaza by November.
The two way Mall Shuttle traffic is open on 16th Street with a minor detour.
Bill Mosher also provided an update on the DUS renovation project. He will
work with team USA to get some pictures as they will be taking a tour in
the next couple of days. Public involvement is still being solicited. They are
coordinating all the private projects and the interpretive display is underway.
Director Daly asked if chiller is what they call the air conditioner. Bill stated
that it is and it is only for cold air.
Director Folska asked if he is aware of any condominiums in the DUS area.
Bill stated that due to the FHA increasing the requirements, it is hard to get
financing for condominiums. Also, the construction defect laws in Colorado
are too onerous and expensive. Insurance companies do not want to cover
that. It is hard to get insurance and financing and is a big liability for a long
period of time; all of this might prevent construction of condominiums for a
while.
Director Bagley asked if they could do the tour on a Tuesday before the
committee meetings or Board meeting. He also asked if the tour could
hopefully be done before the 18th of April. Bill stated that he will coordinate
with Paula and the Staff.
Director Solano asked what would happen to the tracks over the bus box in
a storm situation. Bill Mosher clarified that below grade does not mean
below ground. The tracks are on a channel over the top of the bus box;

there are water proofing and drainage provisions for the tracks. Rick Clarke
also stated that the trains will clear the snow as long as they are run
frequently. General Manager (GM) Phil Washington stated that the light rail
has never stopped. Bill Mosher stated that they are not concerned about
water sitting in the tracks as they have planned for it.
Director James asked if they are still under budget. Bill stated that they are
spending the money allocated and are trying to keep costs down. They are
trying to use funds efficiently as they are on a fixed dollar amount. He
stated they are also on schedule. They are focusing on getting the office
space for Amtrak done to be able to move them back. The contractors have
done remarkably well in the area of safety with close to 600 days without
incidents. Contractually they are scheduled to finish by 2014 and they
expect to have it done on time.
Director James thanked him for all they have done. Bill thanked the Board
for the opportunity to present and their support.

D. Other Matters
Director James stated that on the morning of March 21st the Board of
Transportation Solutions will host their Annual Road Ahead event, and all Directors
are invited.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 2, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 5:58p.m. to the Government
Relations Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

