Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, March 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 6:14 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
6:18 PM
6:15 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

6:14 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

6:15 PM

Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District J
Committee Chair

Present
Present

6:15 PM
6:16 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:15 PM
6:10 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

6:12 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:14 PM

Paul Solano
Jeff Walker

Director, District K
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:15 PM
6:14 PM

Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:15 PM

6:15 PM

Director Deadwyler was absent.
Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Lee Cryer, Nate Currey, Martell Dyles,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Adrina Gibson, Bob
Grado, Doug Grag, John Hersey, Ali Imansepahi, Russ Larson, Adrian
Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh Jr., John
McKay, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Ed Neuberg, Scott Reed,
Jenifer Ross-Amato, Roger Sherman, Zamy Silva, Brittany Smith,
Lindsey Smith, Errol Stevens, Henry Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Ashland Vaughn, Brian Welch,

Others Present:

William Gross, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner, Tim Walker

B. Recommended Actions

• Modeling On-Call Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the contract with
AECOM for travel modeling services. The current contract value is
$355,706.62. This amendment increases the value by $535,000 to a
total of $890,706.62. Funding is included in the 2017 expense budget
and the budget for the SH 119 BRT Environmental Clearance project.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning
introduced Brian Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical
Services and Lee Cryer, Project Manager II to assist him.
Lee Cryer stated that this contract relates to an on-call
AECOM contract that RTD haS since 2013 with AE COM who
provides high value service to improve RTD’s travel modeling.
Mr. Cryer explained that the recommendation to the Board is
to utilize the on-off board data that was collected in 2015. He
explained that this data would be used for the upcoming U.S.
Highway 119 environmental evaluation.

Director Folska asked if RTD had the Northwest Mobility Study
results when the agency first engaged with AECOM in 2013.
Mr. Cryer confirmed that there were no results for the
Northwest Mobility Study, but AECOM assisted with the
study.
Director Folska informed the Board that she would be voting
no on this item. She stated that the amount of money used
for this project should be redirected to complete FasTrack
commitments RTD has already made.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 3]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Tisdale,
Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Natalie Menten
Barbara Deadwyler

C. Updates

• Parking Management Program
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
introduced Robin McIntosh, Senior Facilities Manager, Errol Stevens, Parking
Manager, who presented information on the RTD parking program.
Mr. Stevens said his presentation was to provide additional information to
the Board on the parking program that was created in 2008 rather than to
offer recommended actions at the time.
Mr. McIntosh said that the Board was briefed on the parking program in the
fall of 2016, at which time the Board requested that additional facilities be
brought into the program.
Mr. Stevens said that the presentation would cover recommendations for
both increasing parking rates and adding additional facilities into the
program. He said that, per state law, 15% of RTD parking is required to be
sold as reserved and when the maximum capacity is reached any additional
requests are placed on a waiting list. He noted that Mineral Station holds a
capacity of 1,227 vehicles and the 15% reserved space allocation is 184
vehicles. He said that the reserved spaces have been sold out for several
years, with 242 people currently on the waiting list. He said it could take as
long as 18 months for a requestor to receive a parking space from the time
the person’s name is placed on the list and that part of the philosophy of the
potential rate increase was to reduce the length of the waiting list. He also
cited Littleton Station as another station with high parking demand. He said

that station has 361 total spaces, 54 reserved spaces, and a waiting list of
24 months.
Mr. Stevens said that RTD uses the Denver-Boulder Metropolitan Area
Consumer Price Index (CPI) when setting fare changes in order to keep in
harmony with the advance of that index. He said that RTD has not
established a similar policy for increasing parking rates, which have not
changed since the program began in 2008. He said that applying the
increase in the CPI to 2008 rates would yield a parking fare of $2.35 and
noted that such an amount would result in odd change to make at a pay
station. Mr. Stevens cited a study conducted in 2016, which concluded that
each station brought into the parking program would result in a reduction in
parking for that station of 6%-18% and a reduction in ridership of 3%-18%.
He said that the issue of elasticity is something to keep in mind but offered
that any reductions could be offset by site-specific conditions, such as
service alternatives, distance, traffic conditions, and latent demand for
parking. He said that RTD has 15 Park-n-Rides with over 93% usage.
Mr. Stevens recommended that the Board adopt a policy statement to allow
for the parking rates to periodically be updated in a fair, reasonable, and
unbiased manner, which would account for supply and demand for parking
spaces and potential losses of revenue and ridership. He recommended an
increase in the daily parking rate from $2.00 to $2.25 for in-district patrons
and from $4.00 to $4.50 for out-of-district patrons. He noted that the outof-district rate is higher because people living outside of the district
experience a tax advantage by not paying the RTD sales and use tax. He
stated the rate for reserved parking spaces was $42 a month, the equivalent
of 21 business days per month at $2.00 per day. Mr. Stevens suggested the
following increases:


For Park-n-Rides with no current waiting list, he recommended the
monthly reserved parking rate be increased to $47.25 per month;



For Park-n-Rides with a waiting list of less than the 15% of the
reserved parking allocation, he recommended the monthly reserved
parking rate be increased to $52.00 per month;



For Park-n-Rides with a waiting list of more than the 15% of the
reserved parking allocation, he recommended the monthly reserved
parking rate be increased to $56.75 per month.

Mr. Stevens said that RTD has established an arrangement with car share
companies to see how car shares can integrate with RTD parking facilities.
Per an assessment conducted by the City and County of Denver and through
customer surveys, Mr. Stevens stated that a significant portion of those
using car shares who park at RTD facilities end up using transit. He said that
the car share parking arrangement helps address the first-mile, last-mile
problem. He noted that certain car share companies require exclusive
signage for their vehicles at reserved parking spaces whereas other

companies are more flexible. He recommended that, for facilities where all of
the reserved spaces are sold out, car share companies would have to select
first-come, first-served spaces, for which they would pay a $100 one-time
license fee plus $2.25 per parking session. He also recommended, for
premium locations with a high-demand for parking, that car share companies
purchase exclusive signage at facilities where spaces are available and be
charged a $200 annual license permit fee per signed space, plus $2.25 per
parking session. He said that since the start of the assessment car share
companies have logged 7,886 parking sessions in 11 RTD parking facilities
around the central business district (CBD), indicating a substantial level of
use.
Mr. Stevens then discussed which existing RTD parking facilities might be
brought into the parking program. He said that, when the program started in
2008, the foothill facilities were not included but were identified as
candidates for the next phase of the program. He recommended that those
facilities be incorporated into parking program. He stated on average 10% of
parking users come from out of district, whereas in the facilities along the
foothills the out-of-district average approaches 38%. In addition to the
foothills facilities, he recommended that the Lincoln-Jordan station also be
included and stated that marginal parking facilities could be reconsidered and
removed at a later date. In reviewing the impact on revenues, Mr. Stevens
estimated that an across-the-board 12.5% increase across all facilities in the
program would yield:
 $150,000 increased revenue for typical spaces in facilities already
included in the plan;
 $15,000 for additional car share spaces;
 $95,000 for stations along the R and G Lines;
 $100,000 for the Lincoln-Jordan and foothills facilities; and
 $15,000 from additional violation revenue.
The total amount of increased revenue projected would be $375,000, less
$235,000 in initial expenses for the purchase of pay stations and additional
maintenance costs. He said that, if the Board agreed with the rate increase
concept, the next step would be for the Board to formally adopt the rate
increases and parking expansion in April. If the recommended actions are
authorized, he said that patrons would be notified by posted signage and
website notifications.
Director Folska said that Mr. Stevens proposal was an excellent start. She
asked to see a GIS map that would show the economic and demographic
status of persons around the parking facilities proposed to be included in the
parking program. She also commented that being more efficient with the
agency’s rolling stock and available parking would require RTD to employ the
concept of using “big data” in real time. She expressed her hope that RTD
would consider big data before asking the Board to make large purchases
and imagined a scenario in which a patron with a paid reserved parking

space could put that space up for lease for a nominal charge, thereby freeing
up additional unused space in a parking facility.
Director Broom asked whether the opening of the parking garage at Iliff
Station would reduce the reserved parking waiting list at Nine Mile Station.
Mr. Stevens noted that information would be forthcoming. He said he was
hopeful that people would move to Iliff Station and added that the City of
Aurora set the parking rate at $3.00 to attract out-of-district drivers to park
at Iliff Station rather than Nine Mile Station. He said it is unclear whether the
$1.00 in savings would be enough to incentivize drivers to park at Iliff
Station but noted that Aurora may adjust the rate at Iliff Station if too few
drivers park there. He added that determining a trend could take a few
months.
Director Anderson asked about the parking garage at the Jefferson County
Government Center. She said she had heard anecdotal information that the
garage is not at capacity and noted that there is currently no charge for
parking.
Mr. Stevens estimated that the garage was averaging two-thirds capacity
and speculated that it would be some time before the facility reaches the
90% capacity mark, at which time it would be incorporated into the parking
program. He said that Jefferson County is concerned about pushing drivers
from the parking facility into public parking areas, as drivers may migrate to
the public parking areas to find a free parking space if the foothills facilities
are brought into the parking program.
Director Tisdale asked if there were other facilities with waiting lists.
Mr. Stevens confirmed the four mentioned in the presentation were the only
ones.
Director Tisdale also asked whether Mr. Stevens had considered using the
12.5% rate for in-district patrons and the 17.5% figure for out-of-district
patrons.
Mr. Stevens said the out-of-district parking was initially set at $4.00
because it was double the $2.00 cost for in-district parking.
Director Tisdale questioned whether RTD may be missing out on parking
revenue in the event that a car share vehicle is parked for a brief period of
time and subsequently borrowed by another driver. He said that Mr. Stevens
might want to consider raising the license fee to capture that potential lost
revenue.
Mr. Stevens said that the car share parking permits require them to report
each parking session, even if only for a short duration. He said that creating
a system that is fair for both RTD and the car share companies is difficult.
He mentioned that the City and County of Denver sells an annual parking
permit for $850, which grants a car share company access to any parking

space outside of the CBD. He said that car share companies are paying
Denver $350,000 per year and that RTD’s program would collect only 5-8%
of that amount. He stated he would consider Director Tisdale’s suggestion
of higher license fees.
Director Francone mentioned that she had met with the former general
manager of the Car2Go car share company, who indicated that the
company’s service area has shrunk dramatically and said that certain areas
of the metro area are no longer serviced by Car2Go. She asked how
incorporating the additional facilities into the parking program would affect
the car share companies.
Henry Stopplecamp said the additional facilities were outside of the areas
serviced by Car2Go.
Director Francone noted that not all RTD parking facilities are included in the
program and asked whether Mr. Stevens’ proposal would add the remainder
of those facilities. Director Francone also noted that all of the foothills
facilities are in her district.
Mr. Stevens said that only 50 out of the 80 facilities would be included and
mentioned that those facilities would cover 90% of all district parking.
Director Williams said that one of RTD’s strategic goals is to increase
ridership and asked how adding additional parking facilities to the parking
program would affect ridership. She asked whether the financial impact of a
potential 18% drop in ridership would be less than or equal to the revenue
gained through the increase in charged parking. She said she understands
that RTD needs to charge for parking but stated that charging for parking
would not add ridership. She stated that RTD should consider the public
relations aspect of such a change.
Mr. Stevens said that the study reported to the Board in August 2016 did
identify the potential for impact but noted that the impacts could be
mitigated by offsetting considerations. He said it would be unlikely that the
high end of the range of potential lost ridership would be realized. He stated
that the southeast and southwest corridors experience the highest parking
usage and that the waiting lists for parking in those corridors has been full
for years. He noted that RTD does not know what the actual impact of a
rate increase would be.
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that the potential 18% drop in ridership is not an
across-the-board impact, but rather only affects ridership at the added
facilities.
Director Williams asked how much money the parking program collects
annually, and Mr. Stevens responded that last year RTD made $166,000 in
net revenue. He said that in 2007 the parking program was initially proposed
to encompass all RTD parking facilities. He said that at that time the
legislature dictated that RTD could not charge in-district riders for the first

day of parking. He speculated that the parking program may one day be
universal but stated that the current system attempts to cover most of the
costs of maintaining the parking facilities.
Director Williams asked whether RTD is making efforts to change the law
regarding parking. General Manager Genova said he would follow up with
her.
Director Menten asked for confirmation that Denver sells yearly parking
spaces at any location for $850.
Mr. Stevens said that the $850 license gave the car share company the right
to park outside of the CBD at any curb without a neighborhood or other such
restriction. He said that the spaces inside the CBD are more highly allocated
and another permit fee applies for access to those areas.
Director Menten asked when Denver last looked at the parking fee. She said
she was concerned that a patron could purchase a reserved RTD space and
then hold on to it indefinitely. She mentioned the potential of having a
lottery for parking spaces but stated that she did not know whether doing so
would be appropriate.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that reserved spaces are tied to license plates, which
negates the possibility of reselling or sub-leasing reserved parking.
Director Broom stated that the parking system is inherently unfair in that
some facilities have adequate free parking and others charge for spaces. He
said that the term free parking is an oxymoron because there are always
operations and maintenance costs. He said that RTD should have a longterm goal of developing an enterprise system in which all parking would be
paid parking and any excess revenue could be applied to building more
parking structures.
Mr. Stopplecamp said the reason the foothills facilities have been proposed
to be included in the parking program is that RTD can charge on the first day
for out-of-district patrons.
General Manager Genova stated that one of main objectives of the parking
program was managing demand rather than driving revenue, as RTD wanted
to control who parks at its facilities. He stated that including the Wagon
Road Station into the parking program freed up parking capacity and noted
that students would use Table Mesa Park-n-Ride for long-term parking rather
than using campus parking. He said RTD had no way to enforce parking at
district facilities prior to the program. He said that prior to the parking
program’s inception RTD received an unsolicited proposal to manage
parking. He said that the RTD Act was amended to allow a third party who
owned and operated parking facilities to charge for parking as long as RTD
would receive none of that revenue. General Manger Genova said that, as a
result of proposal, RTD performed an analysis and drafted a large-scale

parking analysis report, which he said he could make available to the
Directors.
Chair Hoy stated that the parking program does not net large sums of money
but noted that the costs of parking maintenance are defrayed by the parking
revenues. He said he is opposed to charging parking fees for all RTD patrons
but noted that the users of the parking facilities are not transit users. He
asked whether the pay stations accept cash or credit, and Mr. Stevens said
that the machines take both forms of payment.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that the parking program helps pay for inspections of
the lots and the equipment but does not pay for all maintenance. He stated
that RTD’s goal is to move patrons to areas with more capacity.
Chair Hoy said the Wagon Road parking facility was at capacity prior to the
fare structure change in 2016, which drove many complaints from his
constituents. He said that riders began to park in Thornton following the fare
change, which freed up parking at Wagon Road, indicating that patrons are
sensitive to fares. He stated that daily in-district rates are not affected by
the addition of facilities to the parking program and that patrons would not
choose another form of transportation as a result.
Director Lubow reiterated that Mr. Stevens is not proposing an increase tied
to the CPI but rather a lesser amount. She questioned whether RTD would
have justification for an arbitrary increase not tied to a specific number.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that the presentation was meant to allow the Board to
ask questions and that his team was looking to the Board for
recommendations. He said his impression was that the Board was interested
in raising parking rates and that the question was by how much. He said
there is no magic number and that most patrons would not balk at the small
proposed increase.
Director Lubow said that she has written many regulations and stated that
an increase should be tied to a set number. She said she favored an out-ofdistrict parking rate of $4.50.
Mr. Stevens said that the parking program administrators initially considered
an increase of 10% and looked to the CPI before settling on the 12.5% indistrict increase. He said that certain considerations caused them to lower
the proposed rate from 17.5% and that the lower rate increase may soften
the potential impact to ridership. He stated that the lower parking usage and
ridership would be backfilled by the latent demand.
Director Tisdale said that he found the proposed increase to be conservative.
He said that any lost ridership would relate to a small percentage of out-ofdistrict patrons and that in-district patrons do not have to pay unless they
park overnight. He said that any formal decision on the parking rate increase
may have to wait until after April and that the committee may need to meet
again before proceeding.

Director Francone said that the Board should discuss the changes at a Study
Session prior to issuing any formal resolution. She said she is not opposed to
charging for parking and that the issue is long overdue. She asked what
happens to violation revenue.
Mr. McIntosh stated that RTD keeps all of the parking fine revenue. Mr.
Stevens stated that violations are $20 for the first infraction and $50 for the
second and each subsequent infraction. He noted that RTD does not have
strong enforcement mechanisms and as a result many of the fines are not
paid.
Director Folska mentioned the concept of demand pricing and stated that
two people riding on the same airplane may pay drastically different rates.
She said that demand pricing may address the issue of who can afford
parking and who cannot and said that people actually have a choice in their
mobility.

D. Other Matters
Bill Van Meter provided an update to the Pass Program working group as requested
by the Board. He stated that the first meeting is scheduled for Monday, March 13.
He confirmed that there will also be meetings in other jurisdictions. He said they
are talked to some educational institutions and with Jefferson County. He
commented that meetings around the district will allow RTD to solicit input from
citizens and allow better access to meetings. Mr. Van Meter said that all meetings
are open to the public and there will be public comment at every meeting.
Mr. Van Meter stated the East High School Constitutional Scholars have declined to
participate because of the time commitment. He said with their decline it opened
up two spots and General Manager Genova has invited two new stakeholders to
the group; a representative from The University of Colorado, David Cook and
representative from the Independence Institute, David Polhill.
General Manager Genova stated that there was a request to have all the
information regarding the Pass Program working groups provided on RTD’s website
as well as on the two-week calendar.
Director Lubow asked if Mr. Van Meter could inform everyone of where the meeting
would be held.
Mr. Van Meter stated that the meeting is on Monday, March 13, 2017 at the
Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce located at 1445 Market Street, meeting starts
at 1 p.m.
Director Folska said that she was disappointed that there were no RTD Board
Members involved in the Pass Program working group. She also stated that she
was aware that some University of Colorado staff were upset that they were not
involved in the working group.

Director Lubow mentioned that David Cook, a representative of University of
Colorado, was a new addition to group.
Director Francone thanked General Manager Genova for the recent additions to the
working group.
Director Menten mentioned that the Board can always attend the public comment
during the Pass Program working groups.
Director Lubow handed out a draft resolution from the City of Longmont. She
asked the Board to have a discussion regarding what RTD will do with the money
from the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) refinancing and other
FasTracks funds.
Director Lubow stated that it is known that the Board has some issues with
Mobility Choice, but it is important to get funding to allow RTD to get in front of
new technology. She informed that Board that she has a meeting scheduled with
Mayor Jim Gunning in the near future that is open to other Board members to
attend.
Director Anderson stated the P3 process was being penalized. She said that she
opposes any of this money going towards anything but fixing the University of
Colorado A Line and the completion of the G Line.
Chair Hoy advised Director Lubow that the invitation to meet with Mayor Jim
Gunning must first go through the proper meeting procedures before she moves
forward. He also stated that before any of the Board makes a decision about
Mobility Choice, we will need a full update from staff. He said that staff will have
the opportunity to address everyone’s issues.
Director Francone stated that she was under the impression that there was nothing
before the Board to consider regarding Mobility Choice. She mentioned that she
didn’t know why the Board would be meeting with Mayor Gunning to discuss
Mobility Choice. She asked General Manager Genova to provide more information
regarding the relationship between RTD and Mobility Choice.
General Manager Genova said that that there will be an update on Mobility Choice
in March during the Financial Administration and Audit committee. He stated that
staff will brief the Board on some changes that have been made and try to share as
much information as can regarding Mobility Choice.
Director Francone noted that she would like to see how Mobility Choice fits in with
the 2018 RTD goals that were defined at the Board retreat.

Director Menten commented that the Board voted the Mobility Choice measure
down in the fall and as far as she is concerned it is dead.
Director Folska said she agreed with Director Menten’s sentiments.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 4, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned meeting at 7:44 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

