Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, October 13, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 8:01 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Absent
Present

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

8:04 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

8:01 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

8:01 PM
8:02 PM
8:01 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Absent

8:01 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:58 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Absent

8:03 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

8:01 PM
7:58 PM

Directors Anderson, Deadwyler, Lasater, Menten, and Solano were absent. Director Hoy
left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Garrett Christnacht, Heather Copp, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz,
Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Adrina Gibson, Kate Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Jim Kelley, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales,
Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya Shrestha, Zamy
Silva, Bill Sirois, Yong Song, Henry Stopplecamp, Lisa Trujillo, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Eric Anderson, GB Arrington, Mike Dino, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene
Howard, Lorna Moritz, Steve Price, Bob Rizzuto, Dave Sachs, Danielle
Smith, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended actions were presented.

C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, notified the Directors that
Roger Sherman from CRL Associates was not able to attend the meeting.
She reviewed the Local Government Relations update as included in the
October 13, 2015 Government Relations Committee agenda packet.
Sherry Ellebracht noted that she attended the Metro Mayors Caucus meeting
on October 7th. The Caucus discussed the Scientific and Cultural Facilities
District (SCFD) reauthorization. She shared that it was quite a discussion
with more information to come as the subject develops.
Sherry Ellebracht informed the Directors that the ballots for the November
3rd elections will be mailed out on October 14th. She added that after the
elections Roger Sherman will work with staff to schedule time for the
Directors to meet with the newly elected officers.
She pointed out that the Tampa Chamber of Commerce visited Denver and
met with many different groups. Their time with RTD was spent on Transit
Oriented Development and FasTracks. Roger Sherman, along with Kim
Kucera, Senior Vice President of CRL Associates, and Bill Sirois, Senior
Manager for Transit Oriented Communities, participated in the tour and
presentation. Sherry Ellebracht added that the delegation was very

interested in finding out how RTD was able to get FasTracks on the ballot in
2004 and the collaboration that has followed. Bill Sirois and Roger Sherman
emphasized to the delegation that this project has taken time.
Sherry Ellebracht added that Maria Garcia-Berry, CRL Associates Chief
Executive Officer, presented on FasTracks at the Transportation for America
Innovation Academy.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Jenifer Brandeberry of Brandeberry~McKenna noted that her firm helped
organize a tour of the University of Colorado A Line for the Office of Legal
Legislative Services. She said it is great that Capitol staff has reached out
to be educated and knowledgeable in RTD matters and the impact that the
agency is having on the region.
She added that the Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) met
a week ago and will meet again on November 2nd. Brandeberry~McKenna
will present the bill drafts to the directors once the TLRC finalizes them.
Jenifer Brandeberry announced January 28th, 2016 from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m.
as the date for the Legislative Forum/Educational Session for the General
Assembly that Committee Chair Folska and Chair Sisk have been
coordinating. The tentative location is the Gallery at Denver Union Station.
She mentioned that the budget situation of the State will dominate the 120
day Congressional session. The conversations will determine what, if any,
money is available for additional transportation funding at the State level.
Governor Hickenlooper is set to present his budget during the first half of
November to the Joint Budget Committee.
Director Lubow wondered if some transportation funds were supposed to be
distributed due to a legal requirement from last year. Jenifer Brandeberry
explained that SB 228 came into play for the first time based on the
economic recovery; however, there is a formula on how the money is spent.
The formula is affected by TABOR, K-12 funding, Gallagher Amendment,
and the Hospital Fee, among others. She added that the Joint Budget
Committee creates the budget forecast based on conservative projections
yet the final budget numbers are not available until March. Jenifer
Brandeberry said that she would create a one page document explaining how
the formula works. Director Lubow noted that it was truly outstanding to
listen to the complexity of the process and was not quite sure that a one
page document would explain the complexity. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
informed the Directors that Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer, will create
the document Jenifer Brandeberry alluded to since she used to be the
Deputy Executive Director for the Colorado Department of Revenue.

Committee Chair Folska asked Jenifer Brandeberry to confirm that the
Constitution of the State of Colorado is quite extensive. Jenifer Brandeberry
agreed that it is one of the largest in the nation.
Director Francone asked Jenifer Brandeberry to confirm that Propositions AA
and BB on the ballot for November will not affect RTD. Jenifer Brandeberry
confirmed that those two propositions if passed will not have an effect on
funding for RTD.
Director Francone added that she would find the one page document
explaining the formula for SB 228 helpful.
Committee Chair Folska noted that she enjoyed working with Director
Francone and Mike Dino, Principal from Squire Patton Boggs, on the Federal
Staff Forum held on August 26th at Denver Union Station. She added that
moving forward it is important to keep providing these kinds of opportunities
at the State level in order for the Directors to have face to face time to build
relationships and keep contributing to the cooperative bipartisan coalition.
She pointed that this coalition is not easy but it is simple.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, noted the historic significance of seeing the
House of Representatives in a leadership quandary since The Hon. John
Boehner announced his resignation as the Speaker of the House. He noted
that the Republicans are hoping The Hon. Paul Ryan would be the next
Speaker.
He pointed out that House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
Chairman Bill Shuster still intends to present a bi-partisan bill in committee
before the October 29th expiration of the current 3 month extension for the
Highway Trust Fund (HTF). Mike Dino added that the $8 billion cash
infusion to the HTF in July will sustain it until July 2016.
Mike Dino said that the White House and Congress are setting final budget
resolutions in order to pass the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget.
He ended his remarks congratulating RTD for winning one of two nationwide
Federal Transit Administration’s 2015 Outstanding Achievement Award of
Excellence in Environmental Documentation Preparation for the Southeast
Rail Extension.
Director Lubow said she had heard that the Senate approved some kind of
change to the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) definition but the House of
Representatives has not. She asked Mike Dino to expand on this. Mike
Dino replied that the changes made were reported a few months back to the

Board and that he could review the report with the Directors again. The
changes are not what RTD requested as the corridor still has to be
dedicated. Director Lubow wondered if the House was amenable to the
changes RTD is pursuing. Mike Dino said that Squire Patton Boggs is
working on that.
Director Francone noted that there is a buzz among the Federal staffers of
the fantastic forum held at Denver Union Station on August 26th. Mike Dino
added that RTD has some great opportunities to keep inviting Federal
staffers to tour RTD properties, such as the Elati Maintenance Facility.
Director Francone mentioned that conversations with staffers for both The
Hon. Ken Buck and The Hon. Cory Gardner pointed to agreements with
RTD’s definition of BRT. She added that she will personally invite the
staffers to the January 28th Legislative Forum. Director Folska stressed the
importance of all Board members attending this Legislative Forum.

D. Other Matters
Marla Lien, General Counsel, informed the Board that to her understanding they
would be safe not showing up tomorrow to the City and County of Denver (Denver)
court. She is working on gathering better information through RTD Security staff’s
personal contacts with Denver’s District Attorney Office. Director Francone noted
that she will be attending.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 3, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 8:25 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

