Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

July 6, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on July 5, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, and Tayer.
Directors Brohl, Malpiede, Riley, and Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate
Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Julie Skeen, Jim Starling,
Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Ken Burns – CAC, David Cohen – Alameda Station, Jeff Leib – Denver
Post, James Roum – DURA, Debra Wilcox – CAC, and Tom Wooten –
Alameda Station.
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:51 p.m.

CAC Update
Committee Chair Cohen noted that Chairs, Ken Burns and Debra Wilcox from the
Citizens Advisory Committee were present for tonight’s meeting, and invited Ken
Burns to speak to the Board.
Ken Burns indicated that he had a number of things to go over with the Board from
the quarterly meeting held last month. It was very well attended. Directors Cohen
and McMullen attended. The majority of the feedback from the participants of that
meeting was that they loved the FasTracks project, but they wanted to see it
completed and finished sooner rather than later and were willing to have the tax
increase go into effect this year to make that happen. Transit was discussed broadly,

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 2
and for the individuals in the Tech Center they brought up the issue of the last ½
mile and acknowledged that it is nice to have access to the rail station, but how do
they get to work when they leave the station. The meeting participants also brought
up a survey that was completed which indicated that over 50 percent of the
respondents that work in the Tech Center live above I-70. Another concern
discussed referenced user payments on the rail line, and suggested the use of a
smart device that would allow payment. They also inquired about the discontinuation
of the G line. The business community did not understand why it was terminated
and hoped for its reinstatement. The next quarterly meeting will discuss the West
Corridor, and we will also determine if a lunch time or evening meeting should be
held.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that both he and Director McMullen attended this
meeting and it was well attended and all participants were very engaged and
interested in the discussion. He recognizes the efforts made by the Citizen Advisory
Committee.
Director Tayer indicated that this service is extremely useful especially considering
this committee is comprised of non-political and non-RTD individuals. Regarding the
service inquires, Director Tayer asked if the participants understood transit
economics and RTD’s overall operating budget along the challenges we face. He also
asked if the participants were interested or willing to identify more recourses for
operating revenues.
Ken Burns noted that he was hesitant to speak for anyone, but the collective body of
people that were in attendance were savvy enough to understand that funding is an
issue. As a whole they would probably not have a comprehensive knowledge of
RTD’s economics. He suggested a need to educate the public so that they would
have a better understanding. If RTD were to put forth such an education the RTD
staff should be knowledgeable to the concerns and issues that the public is asking
for, and perhaps both parties could meet in the middle. And lastly, with respect to
resources, the tax initiative is considered highly favorable since it would mean that
the FasTracks project would be able to finish in a more timely fashion.
Director McMullen shared his appreciation for the Citizen Advisory Committee and
explained that this is beyond what he thought the committee would do when it first
started. He added that the enthusiasm for raising the tax is amazing, and the
Southeast Business Partnership is proud to say that they were the first to say “go
for the tax initiative.”
Director Hoy asked if he heard correctly when Mr. Burns noted that over half of the
Tech Center employees live north of I-70. Mr. Burns clarified that the survey results
for Tech Center employees who utilize transit indicated that over half of those
surveyed live north of I-70.
Director Anderson added that she had spent some time last Thursday at the
Broomfield Park-n-Ride and a lot of the people she encountered were on their way to

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 3
the Tech Center and the major concerns brought up was how to get from their
homes to the Park-n-Ride locations.
II.

Update
Committee Chair Cohen reminded the Board that there would be a Board Tour
coming up in September and encouraged everyone to come out and see the
construction on the West Line.
 West Corridor
Jim Starling explained that the last three months have had a lot of progress. A few
highlights are:
o Civil Construction continues and will be finished by next summer, and
the West Corridor will be open to the public in May of 2013.
o 4 contractors qualified for each of the garages and the plan is to bring
contract awards for both Wadsworth and Sheridan garages to the RTD
Board at the October Board Meeting.
o Total Construction progress is 65 percent complete and the overall
West Corridor progress is 80 percent complete.
o The garage at Jeffco is coming along well and the cast in place
concrete wall recently won an award from the American Concrete
Institute.
o Public tours are available every month, and have been quite
successful.
Director Daly added that it would be great if we could get someone that used to ride
the Interurban line for the opening ceremony to compare the differences between
that line and the new line.
Director Tayer noted that he rode the corridor this weekend and suggested that the
current banners be updated with dates that indicate service will begin 2013 so that
the public is aware that an end date is in sight and to know when service will begin.
Director McMullen highlighted that the cleaning up that we’ve done along the line is
amazing and very exciting, and all of the Denver City Council members that Director
McMullen has met with are excited to see this happening.
Director Bagley added that when we talk about the West Corridor being a transit
project of over $700 million, the Federal Bridge and Sheridan Bridge are significant
contributions over and above transit to improve mobility for the communities that are
served there.
Committee Chair Cohen indicated that since he represents the majority of the district
that the West Corridor travels though, and lives in the area, it is very exciting to see
the daily progress and improvements being made. He is impressed by the
transformation that this project is having on the area.
 Upcoming FasTracks Monitoring Committee Presentations/Discussions
Bill Van Meter explained that staff did their best to identify the schedule for the
FasTracks Monitoring Committee in terms of presentations and decision points

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 4
leading up to the election in 2012. While dates are subject to change, these dates
are on our schedule as of now and our intent is to move smartly to meet those
deadlines or goals, or surpass them.
III.

Other Matters
Director McMullen added that he recently took the train to the Park Meadows Mall
and while the train looks great, the ticket machine still does not work, but at least it
was turned off and if we get another mall that requests special consideration we
should use this as an example because it just didn’t work.
General Manager Washington asked Marla Lien to give the Board a brief update on
the sale of Market Street Station.
Marla Lien explained that General Manager signed the deed today and tomorrow the
sale of Market Street Station will close and fund and RTD will no longer own the
station. This was approved by the Board a long time ago and is part of the DUS
transaction for which we will be able to stay and occupy rent free until we are
relocated. While Market Street Station has been a cornerstone of our system since
RTD began, as of tomorrow it will be the property of the City of Denver.
Director Cohen added that he had attended the symphony Sunday night and rode a
very packed, well utilized Mall Shuttle to get to Civic Center. He wanted to comment
on the tremendous work the operators did under extreme circumstances.

V.

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for August 2,
2011.

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned to the Planning and Development Committee at
6:35 p.m.

