Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 16, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

August 17, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 17,
2012 at 12:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd-Vice-Chair
Cohen, Treasurer Bagley, Secretary Malpiede
Other Board Members
Present:
Subject:

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington,
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:05
p.m.

Approval of August Board Agenda Review
General Manager Washington introduced this item.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve
the agenda for the August 28 Board meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley indicated that he would be
an affirmative vote for the AECOM contract.
Director Tayer indicated that he would like to
support but needed more information in
understanding where the funding is coming
from for the $6M beyond the $4M. He
would also like to see in writing the different
components of the BRT and the incremental
costs.
Director Bagley further clarified this request
to ask for a spreadsheet that would provide
an itemized listing of the components for the
Big 3 and Little 3 that will show what is
funded and the remaining gaps. After some

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 16, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5
discussion on what date to use, the
committee concluded they should do this
spreadsheet using today’s dollars. Director
Malpiede added they should have a simple
qualifier saying “subject to inflation, etc.”
Vote on the
Motion:


The Motion PASSED.

Unanimous Consent


Authorization of Fiscal Authority to the General Manager for the I-225
Rail Line Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors (“Board”) pass the attached Resolution Number __,
Series 2012, to provide the General Manager or designee with authority
to enter into all contracts, real property transactions and
intergovernmental agreements for the I-225 Rail Line Project in the
amount not to exceed the remaining project budget of $605.3 million,
and to amend the project to accept third party contributions without
further board approval. This authority shall include the ability to
negotiate and execute all contracts; work orders; change orders and
contract modifications; agreements for the acquisition and conveyance
of property interests; and intergovernmental agreements that are
necessary or advisable to complete the I-225 Rail Line within the scope
of the I-225 Project budget and to accept grants or other contributions
and to increase the project budget in the amount of third-party
contributions for project work.



Request for authorization to submit to DRCOG an amendment to the
2035 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize submittal of an amendment to the
2035 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), including a supporting
financial plan, to the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) in August, 2012. Because the RTD Board of Directors
decided not to pursue a sales and use tax election in 2012, an
amendment to the RTP is necessary to meet the federal requirement
that the RTP be “fiscally constrained.” Not having a “fiscally
constrained” RTP could negatively impact federal funding for
transportation projects throughout the region.
The financial plan for the RTP amendment assumes no additional
sales and use tax will be available to fund the FasTracks program
prior to 2035. Projects included in the amendment are consistent
with the FasTracks Guiding Principles and were selected because
they represent current commitments of program funds, or they are

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 16, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5
strong candidates for leveraging public/private funds and/or
receiving federal grants. The projects included in the financial plan
include:





West Rail Line: Complete 2013
Denver Union Station: Complete 2015
I-225: Complete 2016
Eagle Project: Complete 2016
o East Rail Line to DIA
o Gold Rail Line to Adams County, Arvada and
Wheat Ridge
o Northwest Rail Line to Westminster
Northwest Rail - Longmont Station: Complete 2015
Central Corridor Extension - Planning Study: Complete



2012/2013

Southwest Corridor Extension – UP Rail Line Relocation:
Complete 2015

US 36 BRT:
o $120M for Managed Lanes to 88 th Street: 20122014
o Table Mesa Pedestrian Bridge: Complete 2012
o $15M for Managed Lanes to Table Mesa:
2014/2015
o Remaining RTD funding commitment available:
2030-2035

North Metro:
o Construction to National Western Stock Show:
2017
o Complete to 72 nd using local funds: 2030-2035

Southeast Corridor Extension: Complete assuming 50%
federal grant funding 2030-2035
The RTP Amendment represents a snapshot in time and can change
in the future as new opportunities arise. Since a full SB 208 Report
will not be developed until February 2014, the additional time will
provide the RTD Board, staff, and stakeholders the opportunity to
work together to consider the options and make collaborative
decisions regarding the build out of the full FasTracks Plan.


Recommended Action


Approval of Contract Award to AECOM for the final design of North
Metro Rail Line Segments 1 and 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve an
eighteen-month professional services contract award to AECOM to
serve as the Final Civil Engineering Design Contractor for the North
Metro Rail Line, from Denver Union Station (DUS) to 72 nd Avenue

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 16, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5
Station, for an amount not to exceed $10,400,000 for the years
2012 through 2014. Funds for the award are contained in the
amended 2012 FasTracks Budget.

II. Other Matters
 Phil Washington explained the action taken by the DRCOG Board on
the NATA resolution. The resolution passed 25/13. He shared a
copy of the approved resolution that appeared watered down from
the resolution received by the RTD Board of Directors. General
Manager Washington indicated that they had just received and
needed time to evaluate the impact. In particular, they need to
understand the language in the contract under item 1-5 that spoke to
“equal impact”. Staff will review this document and brief the Board
members at the study session.
Director Cohen observed that this resolution appears to favor
“stubbies” which RTD does not because of the costs associated with
building to nowhere and also stubbies do not position RTD for the
next level to qualify for potential FTA funding.
General Manager Washington indicated he would send a quick memo
to the Board on the passing of this resolution and the planned briefing
at the study session.


The committee reviewed the items on the study session for August
21st and decided to remove the item on alcohol advertising policy and
transit finance to another time when we could have a full
complement of Directors in attendance. We will target the finance
and operations/customer service meetings for these discussions.



Director Malpiede shared that the Hispanic elected official group had
been meeting this week. Of some concern to this group was the I70, Swansea, Globeville plans.



Director Bagley shared his plans, along with a member of the SLT, to
attend a meeting of the Highlands Ranch Community Committee and
business group with anticipated 90 people in attendance. This
meeting will occur September 18 th and he will be missing the Board
meeting on that night. Paula Perdue shared this was the same date
targeted for the West Corridor commemorative photo shoot.



Director Tayer asked for a presentation on the RTD sustainability
program. He would like to understand the structure for how we will
integrate the management of this.



Director Malpiede shared that she had been contacted by the Denver
Inner City Parish who wanted to share their appreciation to Veolia for

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 16, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5
their community support and donations. Director Malpiede stated she
had invited them to attend the Board meeting where Veolia could
receive public recognition as a part of the record. Her goal is to
provide a feel good story at each Board meeting that highlights the
accomplishments and activities of RTD in this regional community.
Chair Kemp inquired about the fuel lock. General Manager
Washington indicated this is under discussion and may be tied in with
another opportunity but right now, they feel it is too high to lock.
Staff will continue to work this issue.
III. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:50 p.m.

